[Music]
hey Margaret what's up there's a huge
difference between the icon that appears
representing you and your actual
appearance oh I think I think the change
in my appearance is relatively subtle
even over the last 10 years but some
some people don't feel that way about me
I got the the one of the first girls I
dated but the girl I lost my virginity
with she discovered me on YouTube so
obviously she hadn't talked to me for
four decades and when she knew me I not
only had a head of hair but I also had a
beard
and she she really said when she first
watched my videos she thought he's that
the same guy is that the same guy and
the only the only time she knew that she
could confirm it was me when she heard
me laughing she said he still laughed
the way you did when you were 16 years
old but everything else it's so you know
[Laughter]
do it well it's it's not a real super
private question but it comes up in a
lot of different contexts this scarf is
a Cambodian scarf when I lived in Laos
you know I've never like pretended have
more in common with the cultures I study
than I do like you know like given exam
Crean a jib boy culture I'm not gonna
pretend to you like like oh I'm so into
hunting Buffalo or you know I mean any
there are all kinds of that you know I
was in particular example when I was
studying created by culture I was
invited to go to sweat lodges you know
that kind of spiritual ceremony and to
say look guys I wouldn't do it for the
Catholics either
you know what I mean like I remember I
said once it was at a cabin a couple
different situation but once I said if I
was there it wouldn't be a real ceremony
you know be a fake it's cuz you know
because I'm not there for those reasons
right but you know it's it's flattering
you invited but one of the things I
could participate in in Cambodian
culture and lotion culture was the was
the scarf thing and it is different in
those two cultures so that's that's one
part of it the other part of it is you
know um I remember running into myself
in a mirror in a mall about the year
2000 nad to recognize I'm a scary guy
you know soon as you turn
in a mall and there's a full line yes no
it does like you turn the corner in a
mall and there's a full-length mirror
that you weren't expecting to be there
and you're all of a sudden you're
running yourself you go [ __ ] this guy's
gonna kick my ass
yes I think maybe you don't have this
exact for home but I've always looked
for ways to kind of make my look a bit
more feminine without being effeminate
that's a good way to let's go way to put
it and I'm not gonna do
I mean record of jewelry I'm not gonna
wear necklaces and so on but I do think
genuinely with a lot of my outfits
putting on a scarf it softens the look a
bit because you know without wanting to
look menacing a lot of people do respond
to me as menacing and yeah when you're
in Southeast Asia where you're double
the body mass of most of the people
around you that there might be more of
an issue or China for that matter but
honestly honestly you know it's more of
an issue in Canada people who are real
fraidy-cats people who are really the
average cambodian probably looks at me
and thinks the five of us can kick his
ass doesn't matter if he's a bit there's
five of us there's only one of him
they're not they're not that into me but
you know but you know what so these
issues do it's not it's not just height
it's its intensity you know anyway III
make a certain kind of impression on
people and I think you've talked about
that too though you've talked about well
okay in in gender terms you talked about
not wanting to be perceived as [ __ ]
and the I've seen you talk about in some
kind of email back and forth at some
point you know the issue of what is the
culture of being nice or what is the
culture of being perceived as a [ __ ] if
you're a woman or maybe an [ __ ] was a
man or being demanding or being
intimidating and those things so I know
I'm sorry I'm from a somewhat different
you know from a gendered perspective
we're probably fistfights are not the
main the main issue I think that's that
stuff you handle too but yeah you know
it does relate to one of the topics
we're going to talk about the
because it's true I mean I'm someone
who's a demanding person I'm someone
who's very open about you know like
right now I'm dealing with the
University and I'm open about the
demands I'm expecting the university to
live up to and so on it's like look and
you can you do this for me or not and so
on and that's it stuff me it's whether
you're a man I want me to come across
that way and negotiate those things and
you don't want to seem [ __ ] and you
don't want to seem like a pushover and
you want to balance those things and I
think about all the time you have you
have kids I have kid singular and
exactly these kinds of issues I mean I
would not describe myself as a
perfectionist I think I'm a very sloppy
impressionistic sort of person but you
know I do have all kinds of moral
standards I expect the people in my life
to live up to um you know but to give to
you a really simple example so when I
first got together with my my first wife
who's now my my ex-wife you know um she
smoked cigarettes
I'd say once in a while she wasn't a
heavy smoker or something and as soon as
she got me she didn't even discuss with
me she just knew like this was not gonna
be portable some people would say that
that makes me a jerk but part of it is
you know and she didn't drink heavily or
anything but before she got with me my
first was she did drink alcohol you know
to some extent on occasion socially and
you know I don't remember us even
debating it or whatever you know she
really saw who I was and how I lived and
she wanted to be part of my life and so
on and she knew that like either alcohol
was gonna disappear completely from her
life or was gonna be something she drank
once a year or something so you know
those things now I mean that's people
who love each other and want to spend
time together the thing is about modern
Western society is that it's composed of
millions of people who who don't love
each other and don't want to spend time
together but we don't have a choice
we're all struggling to survive on the
mean streets of Calgary Alberta no so
you're you made a video this morning
yeah then that I didn't enjoy very much
what you made about intersectional
people and tradition and everything like
that I was watching it and thinking um
it did reflect a lot of the area's
we do have more in common right and one
of the reasons that I really respect
your channel and enjoy your channel the
other video that you made about Cory
McCarthy what era McCarthy also those
are things that we really share so I
think that that this is an interesting
discussion not just because we're gonna
disagree about things but also be
growing agree about it I think more than
well I can't say that for certain but we
agree about some very important things
we probably disagree about some very
important things as well and I really
enjoyed that video because you were
talking about how a lot of people find
veganism privileged there was actually a
report out from Greenpeace today you
probably saw it Greenpeace is now saying
we do actually need to address animal
agriculture but that's kind of a first
for them and greater argument all along
has been that veganism is too hard for
people right that it is not um that it
is not a value that can easily be shared
by people who are struggling in the
developing world and things like that
and their families their founders were
their founders were East Coast fishermen
types you know those guys also did you
try to they try to pretend that they are
very appealing
I think that's questionable but but I
did think that was interesting but they
really made that that argument for so
long I'm moving away from me now I think
because they have to but yes but yeah it
is a very common argument any one that I
don't tend to find terribly convincing
and I don't think you do either
well Osho is it you were saying it's cuz
they were wanting to maybe get down with
that proletarian mass culture but the
the founders they were pretty
proletarian guys they were uneducated
blue-collar guys who had worked on
fishing boats on the East Coast so they
were I think they weren't faking being
proletarian they I think those guys were
met and spoke to one of them one of the
founders of Greenpeace memorable
conversation at the foot of the CN tower
while members of Greenpeace were
climbing the side of the CN tower and
hanging a hanging a poster on it but
that was actually after he the founder
was exiled from Greenpeace which is a
typical the left-wing thing there was a
struggle to take over the leadership you
know that usual story but look you
you've said in the past too that you
deal much more with the sort of
stereotypical social justice warrior
category of person with a you know
virtue signaling and these things
I was searching my own channel I don't
think the term sjw's ever been in the
title or description on one of my videos
before just just give an example yeah it
hasn't been as much of what I've had to
deal with it as what you've had to deal
with it online I think I think yeah I
mean I think part of that stew because I
love comments my channel and you don't
so you might do hearing more those
people if you've got people who weren't
you know supporters I am I have open
email all the time people talk to me I
do open live streams you know chatting
live chat and take off with several
videos just uploading now from that and
then also ahead did I mean I did over a
year with comments on on the channel you
know while it wasn't conveying because
that time I didn't have a job and I did
have time to run it so there's been a
lot of opportunity but maybe I think
there were other there were other
factors there for why I mean maybe they
approached someone like you either
because they expect you to sympathize
with them or because they think they can
win
I'm a social justice warrior I've had
from people like Charles and then I and
then I have other people who think that
I am not nearly enough of that sort of
person I think social justice important
I mean you think social justice is
important too I think we consider that
very significant right it's one of those
things I don't know if I've said it
exactly this way in a video but you know
when people talk about effective
activism the actual phrase effective
activism would you want ineffective
activism I mean it seems like something
nobody can object to but then when you
find out what it really means what's
behind the mask of this term mean
likewise who who doesn't want social
justice I mean it's it's a you know it's
intersectional because inappropriately
applied to white people anyway um but I
think that it's you know obviously we
all want to look for ways that we can
work together and I think that's really
all that intersection is like yes we
have intersections of our own values so
that's that's the kind of work that I
think is helpful I think a lot of it is
not helpful though and and it's
interesting I think when it comes to the
political spectrum if I was going to
make a statement about the differences
between us I would say that we both
probably fall fairly similarly lined up
on the Left if we're looking at
authoritarian libertarian perspective I
think that we are probably around the
middle somewhere were maybe slightly to
the left and I would say that you're
definitely lean more towards
authoritarianism in terms of values and
things that I do leaning more Vegas
towards libertarianism although I think
we would both fit in with a democratic
context we both I think we both support
liberal democracy I I definitely um so
I've never I've never heard you
associate with the word libertarian
before and it means different these
different peoples and it's guys can open
in a question can you give me an example
you not drug posts any other example of
a libertarian policy you know that you
support or that for you evokes wild
libertarianism is important to you or
some of that broad spectrum but the
thing that would probably land me more
there not just the drug policy
everything related to personal liberty
and things I think it's quite important
to me I you know and proponent of that
and also when it comes to economics and
things like that I think I'm actually a
little bit more on the liberal in terms
of libertarians so we don't get confused
with left and right but I think I'm a
little bit more that way as well to give
an example I assume you do not object to
the fact that currently there are taxes
on cigarettes that intentionally
discourage people from from smoking
cigarettes a pure libertarian I think
would objective that again I you I
definitely know that you are very big
fan of taxes to discourage certainly
it's okay I mean I I'm not I don't think
that they should be a punishing if they
are I think there's other ways to
discourage people from smoking
cigarettes so no I'm not a huge fan of
punitive taxes on most things including
you know cigarettes drugs alcohol but I
mean as vegans we rely on government
regulations to give you an example you
know in Germany they're very good
government regulations just for labeling
food so I can see right away whether
it's whether it's vegan or not but this
is you know government meddling in the
free market so to speak and you know I
love it I prefer the you know the German
system in Taiwan also the government
really strictly defines what is and
isn't vegan and if food is labeled as
vegan then
in the factory the factory has to meet
up to certain conditions so that the
food is truly vegan that's I mean these
are just examples of government
regulations that directly pertain to
vegans involved where broth broadly
speaking I mean anything can be done
badly but broadly speaking I'm
optimistic about all that stuff like
great you know we got labeling
regulations nothing I think that it's
fine
I support democracy in the definitions
votes decides that they want to put
labels on things then they have the
right to have the government do that
sort of thing I talked to my channel
before one thing that I disagree with a
lot of lip with libertarians about is
the raw milk thing we talked about I
talked about that um I do think though
that adults if adults want to drink it
and kill themselves whatever I mean to
me that's totally their choice I do
think I think and a lot of people who
identify more with that libertarian
perspective would also agree that when
it comes to children and when it comes
to the kind of impact that you're having
on other people like the whole you know
idea that you know my right to swing my
fist and the tip of your nose so I do I
do think there has to be some some
holding back on on your personal ride we
can just be a free-for-all
for example speed limits and I assume
you generally favor speed limits or
would you prefer if I mean it's a real
interesting hypothetical how different
would society be if there were no speed
limits
really okay so that's it was okay okay
that's a cop between the years 1965 and
1985 when there were no robots would you
prefer what that issue a voting comes up
really on my channel becomes sadly it
comes in very rarely in real life so
I'll mention this briefly either I will
have a book review coming up it's a book
written by one of my professor
that I know face-to-face here and the
books thesis which is depressing but
possibly true is that we're living in an
era when democracy matters less and less
no I I don't want to believe that the
professor also doesn't want to believe
that but he's talking about the
mechanisms for why he sees that to be
the case um but you know it's funny to
just hear you say repeatedly well if
people vote on this that they wanted
what was the last time people voted on
anything now if you live in some parts
the United States it's always an irony
in some pristine estates you do have a
local referendum on do you want to build
a bridge do you want to raise the fares
on the local speed train like sums they
do have specific referendums for all
goods in Canada we really don't in
Canada we only have a referendum when
it's about abortion or whether or not
Quebec should be a separate country and
that's about it we don't have a lot of
referendums at in Canada but you know
when was the last time direct democracy
mattered in any society of and following
I just say it is it is very rarely
within my lifetime I don't I wish I wish
I could say that too but I don't feel
democracy gives us an easy answer all
these things yeah going I think it would
like this is totally less than you think
this is really important I've been
talking to people a lot lately about the
Second Amendment in the US and I feel
that a lot of people vastly misinterpret
the Second Amendment like your right to
bear arms to me defending yourself in
the 21st century has so much more to do
with your Liberty online your ability to
be yourself your ability to have a VPN
to to be able to engage in direct the
rock closely that way I'd like to be
able to directly be able to defend
yourself and defend your your freedom of
speech and everything else like that I
think that's way more important that's
something I can get behind a lot more
than you know assault rifles for
everyone I think it's much more
important to be able to have that
ability to express yourself and and to
protect yourself also from from unwanted
invasion of privacy and things like that
I think that's a bigger issue and I
would like to see more people get behind
that because like you say we may not be
directly voting and things like that in
this day and age but we could all have
more of a role in everything we do if we
took our online privacy and are on
ability to defend ourselves a lot more
seriously so that's just a strange
thought I but now they shortly put it
what one one issue I'll bring it up here
under the heading of economies from
talking about things we have in common
and ways in which we're different
I actually I have a list of videos I'm
supposed to make and I've had this on
the list since the last time we spoke
which was on Google Hangouts not Skype
but not that long ago a couple months
ago and I've had a very eventful busy
months since then and you know this is
one of the videos you have a kind of
technological optimism I would say after
this I'll specify more what I mean in
just a second that I lack and I just say
partly now my lack of technological
optimism you could say is linked to
actually my having kind of philosophical
optimism
I do feel optimistic that the same
fundamental issues I'm looking at when I
read Socrates still matter today when
I'm reading ancient Buddhist philosophy
still matter today and when I'm in a
very primitive and technologically
backward part of northern Laos in small
remote villages and you know believe me
those villages now one by one are coming
onto the internet you know in just 10
years the internet literally penetrates
the jungle but but be that as it may I
don't actually see a stark difference
you know most of these issues we talk
about obviously you know dating has
changed tremendously and that is a real
example I met my girlfriend because the
inner there are things that have been
transformed by the internet but I'm in
that sense technologically pessimistic
and and philosophically optimistic I see
a lot of continuity and a lot of these
issues is being fundamentally rooted in
ancient and unchanging challenges for
human nature so the last time we talked
and I've had it on my list but it was
supposed to make a video about this and
I never at time um you are very
optimistic that you know basically for
example the development of soy milk I
think that's one of your strongest
examples look already today soy milk and
other sources of protein like soy milk
are better than and cheaper than cow's
milk of course they have way better
ecological impacts you can measure their
efficiency in many different ways but
efficiency includes what are called
economic externalities like water
pollution
it doesn't just include the price to the
consumer but measured in every way
including price to consumer soy milk
really is better than cow milk and that
in this way likewise we should see a
cascading effect
throughout the free market I think you
would say without government
intervention or with very little
government intervention of a kind of
pseudo veganism or or reluctant reduce
at arianism sweeping the nation as those
technological placements happen and I
countered that by just using some
examples I said look I think it's true
there are some examples that favor your
your analysis your leaning but I see I
see examples to the contrary also just
like the enormous profit to be had by
simply taking a lobster cage throwing in
the ocean and getting a lobster and I
think it's fair to say I mean yes you
can make a robot Lobster but there's a
very real sense in which you know there
is no soy milk equivalent for for
lobster and perhaps there never will be
I think maybe that's fair to say maybe
not and also just in terms the
profitability that action throwing at a
lobster cage and then reeling it back in
a few a few hours later with Lobster in
it it has none of those complexities of
you know running a factory farm you know
you don't you don't buy food for the
lobster you don't provide it with
shelter you don't you know the person
doing the fishing won't feel they're
polluting the water they may in reality
be oh you know so I just point out there
are some examples that challenge that
and for me again
plug me into a more kind of ancient
continuing these problems and not so
much a technological optimistic way of
looking forward anything with that I
guess I would say also no matter how
cheap a supply is you need to have the
demand and if you have foods that people
prefer yes people prefer they say you
know I preferred New Wave foods Lobster
over over traditional lobster it tastes
less fishy or whatever like who knows
and people can produce something better
than I think that's a problem that will
be solved by the market right I would
say that there's there's certainly a
high potential there and there's also as
we move gradually and I guess I am I am
very optimistic about the future of
humanity of society and I and I do see
us moving away from violence and towards
a better world and I think that the
social pressure to stop a document
behaviors is going to increase it we see
already you know videos from PETA online
for example where they show you know
live lobsters being involved on lobsters
usually like octopus and things like
that being eaten by people you know in
in the Far East somewhere and they'll
say oh isn't this disgusting missus so
you know and and whether or not that's
hypocritical which we might not agree
that it's it's totally fair to pick on
people in Asia for eating living animals
um it's something that raises a lot of
disgust in the Western world that maybe
as I said maybe you buried it's a
critical but it is a sign of a changing
view of things we tend to view
punishments that were considered de
rigueur in the 18th century to be
completely a bomb today and and I think
that that's changing about our abuse
towards animals so I don't think it's
just going to be the economic factors I
think there's also the demand I mean it
is reka na mcbutter Sall so the demand
issues so that's my my response to that
in terms of why I'm still optimistic in
spite of examples so this is actually an
interesting bridge of several topics I
think one disgusting I'm interesting
here you say that because I think well
you are speaking positively of there
apart Li you can gloss it as cultural
change but partly it is also shame you
know that people should right people
should people should feel ashamed to
wear a fur for example you know which
again come has come about in some
cultures not others and in some cultures
it's come and gone something just hit a
peak around 1988 where everyone was
ashamed to wear fur and then for me to
come back in the 90s I mean you know it
comes and goes
but I think one of the differences
between myself and the younger
generation people say 20 years younger
than me am i that old yeah um is that I
do in that sense regard shame positively
you know there's an old phrase in Latin
shame as the mother of wisdom I don't
know if anyone coined it or that's you
know probably the Catholic Church coin
you know yeah I don't know if she's one
of those families that has no there's no
particular author but you know um I
don't you know I'm actually quite
comfortable with shame being a part of
the vegan movement and you know shame
being you've heard me say this on the
channel in different contexts one of the
reasons why people don't smoke
cigarettes is because they don't want to
be the kind of person who smokes
cigarettes you know the perception of if
some guy comes over and he's dating my
daughter
and my first impression of him as I see
him smoking cigarettes in front of my
door before he comes in you know smokers
often have to do that before they go
notice that you know there there is
stigma and there is shame and I I'm
willing to regard that in that sense you
know analytically positively as part of
I don't think unless they are harming
someone else and you know we decide as a
society that is harming someone else
hurt lobster that's that's that but um
but if you don't feel shame and everyone
else does feel shame right I don't think
that that I don't think that that's a
reason for you to cease your activity
you have that ability as a private
person and I think that's where we would
really differ I it's not that I deny
that shame exists are they useful
there's some utility to shame I'm not
gonna deny that there's really utility
to it however just because you don't
feel shame doesn't mean you must comply
with the prevailing society you don't
need to what everyone else is doing just
because you don't feel ashamed by
something that shames everybody so I'm
not really sure what you think the
difference is there cuz you said that's
that's something where we differ I mean
that's the issue that we've been kind of
disagreeing with each other about and
and I didn't even save early disagreeing
I think it's more just that we have a we
just have different viewpoints on it but
when it comes to drug use I know that
you tend to see drug use as a social
evil you do believe people should feel
ashamed of drug use you do we feel that
drug use should be banned which is a
little bit different and goes an extra
step beyond you know just having people
be ashamed of you know cigarette smoking
or something like that you think that it
should be enforced by the prevailing
society that that social norm should be
enforced through legislation and I do
not mmm okay so where do you think the
difference lies in terms of our
attitudes towards shame because I think
what you actually said was that if
someone doesn't feel ashamed then in
effect the the consequences of the shame
are not incumbent upon them somewhere so
I just wasn't sure what was more like
we say you know some any action that
doesn't hurt other people or doesn't
hurt them enough to justify banning it
legally
you shouldn't have to just go along to
get along I think you can okay well I'll
tell you this does I mean look there's a
difference between descriptive
statements and prescriptive statements
um what I'm talking with you with Shane
is really descriptive it's the way the
world actually is not not the way the
world ought to be
but right now cigarettes are illegal in
Canada and every I don't know if there
is a country where nicotine is illegal
but maybe there is one but you know if
you are a medical doctor and you still
smoke cigarettes you know you're
literally going out into the waiting
room or something or your patients see
you okay normally here look I'm just
going out to here right I see doctors
smoking cigarettes a few steps in front
of there in front of our offices where
the patient's see them okay and they're
saying we're going to list of where
you're actually smoking my point was
you're stepping outside of your office
to smoke and stepping back in whether
that's in a smoking lounge or a lobby or
outdoors anyway so regardless in
different places sometimes you can does
it into smoking lounge zones you can my
point is yes I do think a doctor should
feel ashamed of that
now should a doctor feel more or less
ashamed than another person from
descriptives to Chris practice I
certainly don't think he should lose his
job just because were monks right but
but we're not really talking about him
losing his job and I think we're talking
about the culture of shame and and
pressure being on people you know I mean
that's I think that you know so you know
in that sense I do think the effects of
shame or whatever they do impact people
they are incumbent upon people they do
they do put an onus on people who don't
subscribe to them you know you may have
a medical doctor I've met some people
like this who says oh well I read
Friedrich Nietzsche and I don't believe
in any of your social values so I can
still smoke cigarettes or even I can
smoke pot or even can use coke
pain and still be a medical doctor and
all you people can can you know hang for
all I care
it hope that maybe his personal attitude
but nevertheless I think there will be a
very real culture of shame and habla P
that that cultivates our and again I not
saying my situation where someone could
be simply fired most medical doctors
whose gonna fire you but this guy's
gonna have a reputation is gonna be
odium there's gonna be judgment and
there are going to be consequences
oh okay well alright so let's talk a
little bit about harm I mean you know
your philosophy as you stated sir I just
want to say as a note we have talked
about this by email before on most of my
discussions people I do know crap by
email you know if we just say okay let's
meet at this time sorry but I have no
idea where the stand well I would point
out to you during our email conversation
I really found out what your position on
on drug legalization was I didn't know
that at the beginning so I mean it was
it was genuine learning on on my part
and I think that's true on your part at
least partly I think at least you
responded to me with assumptions about
both both what I believed and why I
believed it that are really not true and
that's understandable okay so maybe so
maybe you haven't um found that out yet
but I thought I you know and and from my
perspective I I genuinely didn't know
what your position was and from my
perspective you were saying a lot of
contradictory things some of the may may
may still be contradictory but look if
you so I've mentioned this example in
the gym before in some countries it is
legal to drink alcohol openly in a
public park and in some it's it's a
crime and it's a very commonly enforced
crime that no you don't have the ability
to drink you don't have the the civil
right to drink alcohol in a park but if
we believe that people do have that
civil right if we're living in one of
the countries in Europe most of those I
know of where people are allowed to get
drunk sitting on a park bench or having
a picnic or what have you then everyone
has the right then you know your medical
doctor can go and get drunk in the park
and I don't know a factory worker can do
it and your own son or daughter can do
it
and you have to recognize okay this is
this is their their civil right so I
mean I do start from the the fundamental
perspective that you know this if we're
really talking about questions of rights
and consequences it has to be equal for
all humanity unless there's some really
strange reason those are going to desert
island scenarios or what-have-you um you
know there's reasons why their employers
oh well you see I guess I'm really
reluctant to even separate humanity into
into two classes that way you you've
said for example in email they do you
think it's quite possible for someone to
be a highly effective person you know to
hold down their job pay the rent and
live a good life while using cocaine
more than once a week should we say yes
okay so is that possible for a police
officer to do vasa for their employer
you know and that would be in the case
of the state to decide us if that's
something they can do um you know I
obviously made my employer I I don't
believe I don't believe there are two
classes of humanity one to whom those
standards apply and when it doesn't
apply if I believe that's you know
incumbent on a police officer for his
role then I think it's I think that's a
moral rule for myself and for my
daughter and for my brothers and
everyone else so you know and conversely
but you know with a police officer this
isn't really a regular employer you know
I think it is yeah right you know this
is this is a role in terms of the type
of alertness and he's a really mental
quality story mode some people can't be
a police officer because they're
disabled they're in a wheelchair yes
some people or disqualified there are
two different there are many different
classes of people for all jobs so we
can't say that our rules for society
have to be equal I think the ethical
rules for our society do have to be the
same for everyone in society that that
really is my point here I don't look at
the world in terms of oh you people it's
okay for you people to get stoned and
waste your time and waste your brain
cells and give yourself brain damage it
doesn't that's fine for you but for
someone like an airline pilot or a
police officer or a medical doctor Oh
for those quality people then these
higher expectations like I really don't
regard society that way to you know have
certain certain degrees etc like what
exactly so you're saying there's the
moral difference it's more dirty for you
that is the distinguishing factor
between but there should never be a
distinguishing factor for people so so
the moral qualifications for being a
street sweeper should be the same as a
lawyer
children I'm saying that when up when
we're talking within the province of
ethical judgments that they apply to all
of the society we're talking about
equally politics is very much the
opposite of that
so for example if the ethical judge more
talking it is it's irresponsible to use
cocaine multiple times per week and then
to make important decisions what's the
force of cocaine such as being a police
officer in your duties you know and
again we're not talking about being high
while on the job here talking about a
theoretical police officer I guess see
when it's down time is is using cocaine
but you and I both know and we're not X
we're not were assuming the audience has
some knowledge also
we're implicitly assuming here that
using cocaine multiple times a week has
quite a few different knock-on effects
in your life and brings with it certain
dangers including the danger of it
escalating to being multiple times a day
being a being a note
addiction so you know that danger being
there we recognize I think is
irresponsible for a police officer so
you so you do think it's okay for a
police officer to use cocaine multiplies
because I do know people who are able to
do very serious jobs that require a lot
of work you know all those sorts of
things
no I so kidding
look again much less in flames are
examples getting drunk in the park hmm
it may be uncomfortable for me to see my
own schoolteacher or my own school
principal getting drunk in the park but
you know genuinely the last time I was
in London that was still on the books
there you could and it's possible you're
walking through the park and there's
your school principal your teacher can
you drunk it is possible a police
officer when he's off duty is putting on
a picnic blanket or sitting on a park
bench and drinking whiskey if that's a
civil right if that's ethically
acceptable then it's then it's
acceptable for everyone well of course
me in Cambodia under the Pol Pot regime
where they were killing people and
according to the law or under Lenin
Lenin's dictatorship of the Revolution
there are situations in which the law is
totally immoral however for the purposes
of this conversation I think what we're
talking about is exactly the overlap of
if you like legislation of morality or
public policy Murli I think I just say I
think this conversation would be it
would be banal if I were to separate
them and say well you know the court
system being completely corrupt there's
no point in discussing that let's only
discuss the the ethical rules we follow
in our own lives voluntarily I mean but
in
part I am discussing the ladder I am
discussing whether or not I mean look
you know Socrates the unexamined life is
not worth living I mean what it does but
does right now
this is descriptive but you know my
point is again with some societies it is
allowed for you to be in a park drink
alcohol and for some it's not but if it
is allowed it's allowed for everyone I
can't accept that I live in a society
there's two classes of human beings and
we say some people are the sort of
people who drink from alcohol in the
park and some are not and we're gonna
legislate that so you see why I mean I
am talking about exactly the overlap of
of ethics and and legislation now you
know why is it I mean you know why would
you accept that some people can because
you have sorry you have stated an email
you support cocaine being entirely legal
and currently in Colombia cocaine for
personal use up to a certain number of
grams is legal so it's not a crime and
Colombia to have cocaine personal use
and you know I mean it comes back to the
culture of shame and acceptance that
creates a culture in which it is
accepted for people to to use to use
cocaine it's wrong they may think that
it's wrong but they don't feel that it's
worth the Greater wrong using the
violence of the state in order to
prevent people from being able to live
their lives as they see fit right here
here in Canada right now we use the
violence of the state to prevent people
from drinking alcohol in public parks
it's not terribly violent we use the
balance of the state to prevent people
speeding in their cars on highways I
mean this is the description of study as
it actually exists and we use the
balance of the states to discourage
people from from using cocaine so I take
it in a society like Colombia
cocaine use is legal you still would not
want police officers using cocaine
although it's actually their civil right
although they they can do so well I you
know are they are they currently working
things like that just as you had with
whether you know if someone who's
drinking alcohol how long has it been
you know that kind of thing I think that
it it's just had more to do with their
personal choice when they are not
working but okay so so you're fine with
police officers using cocaine multiple
times per week I think that's something
the people of Colombia need to decide
but I we're talking about Canada okay
let's let's talk about let's talk about
Canada you think Canada should have the
same laws Columbia has so in Canada
where we on this specific issue you
think that Canada like Columbia should
make it legal for people to use cocaine
so if it's legal for people if it's a
civil right then it's legal for police
officers to use cocaine II multiples a
week with oil industry around here at
least and with the legalization the
impending legalization of marijuana in
Canada there is a lot of question about
people who work in the oil industry
should they be allowed to use marijuana
on their personal time and I think
overwhelmingly people think that that's
probably a good idea to allow them to
have the same uses everyone else just
kind of like we're talking about but um
but then there are questions like you
know when they're on the job how do we
determine whether they have been
consuming too close to the time that
they are working and things like that I
think those are important questions if
we're just trying to find out those
those things as with any other drug that
inhibits your ability to work for
example for myself I can't take any girl
I think benadryl I'm out like I can't
operate machinery if I had a benadryl at
all any time any kind of what are those
calls of you know eyelid communication
things like that like they really really
affect me um so I have to avoid things
like that if I'm going to be doing
anything and I think it's the same as
those
we need to define but we also have to
understand as you really think you
really think that benadryl is similar to
cocaine in terms of the effects that it
has on the ability to I mean it depends
look if we're talking about sin who uses
a substance regularly I would say for me
I mean like it just depends on the
individual um but I would say I show it
has similar effects to you know
prescription opiate I think it depends
on the person though it's very like I'm
saying spell argument I'm it's still I'm
responsible for my behavior on benadryl
it's not the benadryl that's the problem
like I'm obviously responsible for my
own behavior the same is true of someone
who is working in that kind of situation
as well it's up to their employer to
make those decisions to whether they
want to pay them to work when they need
so you really think I mean look I do
think it's an insincere argument to
pretend that benadryl was in any way
carpel to again I do think that if
you're interrogated by a police officer
if you hopefully saw officer
investigating a crime in your life you
actually really want the assurance that
that police officer is not a drug addict
and it's not a regular user of a serious
drug like cocaine or heroin I think you
very much want that I think in reality
what you're talking about offloading the
responsibility it sounds like states
rights arguments I mean saying like okay
well the government won't decide what
drugs you can and can't use we'll just
offload that on to employers well you
know the the kind of conflict that that
creates in society so now it's gonna be
up to do you really want it to be your
boss who's scrutinizing your sobriety do
you really want it to be the
construction company or the factory
owner or indeed even your boss on the
police force and so yeah I think that in
most of those cases that's working out
by the free market like hey people are
going to learn to work for someone who
is has unreasonable demands it really
alright look and it's not enough for you
not to do drugs or of any
and that's today there's a lot of people
who work for example import memory and
they cannot drink any alcohol when
they're working at all they live in
camps we're not talking about when
they're working and we're talking about
whether or not you you sincerely believe
that a police officer can use cocaine
multiple times per week
I'm just arguable cooking
I mean cocaine and heroin in Horry no no
no I think cocaine and heroin that we
both know I just said they're not the
same as benadryl I think that's a this
is insincere response I think people who
are regular users of some of those
substances for example people who take
ADHD medications like ritalin and things
like that those are the same as
methamphetamines they are
methamphetamines and people who take
them for their for the conditions that
they have they they function just fine
like for someone who does suffer from
those diseases they function perfectly
normally I wouldn't you wouldn't but
they function normally when they are
properly medicated I mean I I doubt that
there's such a use case for cocaine when
I'm just trying to I doubt that also
that's why I wonder why you're raising
it answers do i I'm not qualified to
make the answer to that question but I
think that we need to think about it
you're not qualified to answer the
question of whether or not a police
officer investigating a crime and
interrogating you should be sober or
should be the kind of person or should
be the kind of person who uses cocaine
multiple times per week so we're both
grown adults sorry I don't know your
exact age ma'am we're not we're not
teenagers I think you know very well the
knock on problems in your life as a
whole that cocaine use causes I mean to
talk about a hangover is our problem
okay for the police officer for a person
you think my life
lack candy cocaine this is what we're
discussing we're talking about a
theoretical situation in which we passed
the legislation you've approved of in
Colombia for the future of Canada in
which officer can use cocaine multiple
times and you don't but we're not
talking about back pain medicine we're
talking about do you know any human
being who could use cocaine multiple
times per week and you know you build up
Thomas - okay and then you use more it's
a downward spiral cocaine has amazing
knock-on effects the next morning I
assume you know sir you've seen it
you've at least seen friends stronger
dunk okay I'm sure you have some
recognition and old and the type of
social circle that brings you into and
everything else the kind of bad
financial decisions makes you like most
rock stars recording artists they talk
about the fact that they didn't go grope
because cocaine was expensive but when
they're high on cocaine they make
terrible decisions and they end up
losing millions of dollars you know
cocaine leads to irrational poor
decision-making in your whole life is at
least as all these knock-on effects and
you're you're really gonna sit here and
sustain the argument that you can you
can be a police officer or that you you
as a citizen will accept having police
officers using cocaine multiple times a
week as as a civil right I don't think
my position here is like Socrates in
that in a classical Socratic
dialogue you know Socrates's position is
not I disagree with you but I really
believe you disagree with you I think
you've been turning your you've been
performing acrobatics to try to avoid in
bidding that no this is not desirable no
this is not acceptable that no it makes
sense to have a rule that's that shows
no the type of responsibility contain
irregularly their entire lives you know
they do it do it two times in one week
and never again for five years so those
are the kind of things where I I think
it would make sense for a police
department to make the decision that we
don't want our employees to use these
particular drugs absolutely so what why
why what but that is a carpet why is it
the employers choice why do I want my
employer you know in the past me gay
rights went the other way
it used to be that employers would say
okay we're not gonna accept you we're
not gonna accept schoolteachers if
they're homosexual the employers used to
be able make all these distinctions and
general this has been a big movement
saying no the government is taking those
decision powers away from employers we
don't want your employer scrutinizing
your sex life or your alcohol life or
anything else that was taken away even
from Hollywood Hollywood lost the right
to fire people because they were drunk
when they were on set it's very
interesting legal precedent um you know
that that was taken away and the
government creates objective standards
shared by everyone for basically a human
resources departments operate and these
kinds of things uh why would the world
be a better place if you hand over to
employers disability and if you think it
is morally possible but your case still
is and you stop seem to be saying but
we're also diagnosed pilots
you've already you've already admitted
that pilots also can't use cocaine and
flying airplane I mean that's
but for some reason you think it's
ethical for the employer to enforce that
policy as blood and not for the
government why why is that better why
okay what so you think it's fine if a
private business wants to allow its
pilots to use cocaine so of course it so
you've just said of course it's okay for
an airline to decide to allow its pilots
to use cocaine multiplied as weak for
you as a customer
except that you'd accept you'd accept
how would you know you don't have the
ability you don't have the ability to
interrogate the the airline pilot for
you in the plane you don't have the
ability to Terry the police officer
really this is why the government
creates and enforces laws is because you
and I don't have the power to screw it
as a police officer say no you know what
this police officer seems to me like a
cokehead could you give me another
please I've said I don't get that choice
I am interrogated by you I don't get to
get on the plane I don't get to get on
the plane and I do not get to give but
what's what's silly about it NSC the
reason why we have the government
creating and enforcing laws but this is
this is for this is for public safety
and this is for public benefit so in in
Colombia who voted to make cocaine legal
no it was a court judgment it wasn't
democratically it was a Supreme Court
judgment in Colombia okay so Japan right
now what percentage do Canadian public
do you think would legalize heroin and
cocaine which is your position
know much about the issues but I but I
agree it would be a very small
percentage okay so you know the issue of
government regulation providing
protection for me against the
possibility of a police officer being a
drug addict against the possibility of a
pilot being a drug addict I see that as
unambiguously positive and I see it as
more ethically positive for the state
for the government to play that role
than for a private company
I see nothing morally positive about I
would say the opposite I don't really
want Bill Gates and Microsoft or say the
owner of Starbucks saying hey you know
what we're gonna start drug testing
people we're gonna create our own
morality police we're gonna start
intervenes things I think that is a role
for the government and I think it's
crucial to my privacy
and my freedom talk about libertarianism
that my employee
you know duly elected representatives of
people making decisions about these
things
okay so look I do think these kinds
discussions have to have stakes involved
like you know they're not really I've
known people whose lives have been
destroyed by drug use and I've known
people who perceive themselves as if
their lives were not destroyed by drug
use when in my opinion they were and if
not destroyed their lives were at least
seriously dented they may not see it the
way they may think they're having a
great time using cocaine or using heroin
or using whatever combination of drugs
is they're into but yes my judgment is I
look at them from the outside and say
jeez you could have done more with your
life you could've done better if if
drugs were not a part of it um I mean
it's interesting I didn't think this is
conversation good we'll just based on
our primary mail no uh well you know
because you it seemed to me that you
were really against there being any
shame or stigma attached to drug use and
now you say the opposite uh sorry it's
the opposite to my expectations from the
prior email I think it's totally
appropriate I mean
no I have a million brothers but several
of my brothers I'm trying to ban people
from disadvantaged people okay well in
terms of where this conversation started
I thought exactly what you objected to
was someone like myself mm-hmm
in effect judging drug addicts having a
judgmental attitude towards druggist you
came out and you I think
argued that drug addicts should be
regarded as kind of passive victims and
not in this case in sense regarded with
shame and service no you're making a
decision you're making a bad decision
well I'll just say I do regard my own
brothers that way I'm you know it's not
as if someone is close to me I regard if
anything I'm more judgmental because I
know more about them I know more about
the opportunities they had or the
opportunity they squandered and I see
the drug use in that context the thing
to know about their lives but I don't
you know I don't really in a sense judge
a homeless person who I just happened to
pass in the street nor a millionaire
drug addict who might happen to pass
down at the Millionaire's Club or
something who were destroying their
drugs they're destroying their lives
with drug use because I just don't know
that much about them however I just
stated that you thought that it was
better situation in you nan but in
Canada you didn't like seeing drug
addicts on the street and things like
that but it was you found that very
tasteful when I responded that it was
because one of the reasons you don't see
him on the street and because they do
have very draconian drug Brahe and you
basically said in the news filling 50
Canadians a year in order to eliminate
the appearance of drug addicts on the
street that is a false summation of
argument but I can see why why you why
you took it that way
I was basically just questioning the
significance of the number 2000 mod
vegan presented this number that said
well China has executed about 2,000
people per year by the way that's a
dramatic decline they had a peak of
12,000 per year
and I pointed in response well it's
2,000 people being executed this is for
all crimes combined not just for drug
offenses and China's population is so
enormous if you compare that to the
population of Canada that would be the
equivalent of Canada executing 50 people
here so my point was just this is not
tremendous now you know you know it's
fine but no there are other moral
judgments involved here but that that's
that's not one of them um you're in a
tiny tiny minority people who support
the positions you and you you've you've
conceded that um in the minority with
you is Milton Friedman so I don't if you
know that okay Milton Friedman he this
is almost a direct quote but it's like
paraphrase he said if people want to
kill themselves the government should
just sit back and let them now I am I'm
not only willing to concede I'm willing
to very you know very much discuss and
examine the disadvantages of the
body-count
that's produced by enforcing drug laws
now there is a body count and this is
one of the reasons why I mentioned speed
limits repeatedly enforcing speed limits
also as a body count having the cops
pursue and stop someone who's speeding
creates accidents creates a certain
number of deaths per year that would not
happen if the cops chose to ignore them
and in some jurisdictions around the
world they actually have laws to that
effect or if they're speeding over a
certain level the police are ordered not
to pursue to avoid causing more
accidents
results in big my few words well we're
no good to me that seems like an obvious
decision like obviously we want to be
careful about people driving recklessly
but I do god I don't I don't actually
that's why they did that on the Autobahn
it's kind of a separate story but my
point is look I am willing to discuss
the body count of enforcing the law and
forcing speed limits does create a body
count I think the other side if there
was someone in this conversation saying
they prefer to live in a society with no
speed limits you've said you're you said
you had mixed feelings on that maybe
maybe maybe maybe not but if there was
someone saying they'd rather live in a
society with no speed limits they must
be so I do not see Milton Friedman's
position as compassionate I don't can
see it as helping people I see it as a
policy that will have both a significant
body count ie people who overdose or
people who just use drugs moderately
until they die you know do kind of
disappear and very gradually are killed
because you know heroin especially
people can use for 20 years and die very
gradually but they're dead to the world
long before that many was mentally
they've destroyed themselves long before
physically they wither away cocaine is
relatively fast death um I I don't think
I mean sorry this is my belief or my
preferred policy I think that
intervention benefits some of those
people and I and I concede just like
stopping people who are speeding in a
car it kills some of them like I don't
think let me just say this this is a
concession to say I don't think you can
justify enforcing speed limits as saving
lives that would be too simple enforcing
speed limits save some lives and it
kills from people having absolutely no
speed limits will also kill some people
I think you have to concede and this is
on a massive scale having both a culture
and a legal system that is permissive
towards drugs in exactly the sense
legalizing cocaine legalizing heroin it
will kill people it also has a price in
blood people will die and people will
have their lives destroyed ruined
without actually dying significant
numbers of people where a lot of that
comes down to I think you're absolutely
right when we look at deaths from drug
overdoses around the world and things
like that it's even very difficult to
determine and I often see this is
someone who was an advocate of drug
legalization for all drugs I do think
that when you look at the world if you
look at the United Nations Office of
Drug Control Policy and things like that
if you look at the statistics it's
difficult to say if really addiction
numbers are higher in countries that
have draconian drug laws or in countries
that don't like those examples like you
have like China and things like that
were people that we saw there's Russell
countries that have very draconian
policies like Iran but even Los Angeles
or something you know I'm sorry where 14
percent of the adult population or drug
addicts right so so you can have her yes
that's true
every about that I would say that I
almost feel that in in my case I would
see that the victim of the draconian
drug policy is easy access to treatment
and things like that because I do think
it's a health issue it's a wellness
issue it's not a crime issue um I think
that that's something that has lost some
you have policies but I also will
concede I think in your case what you're
saying what is lost is morality I think
for you and without those more without
if you if you legalize drugs you lose
morality I think that's kinda what
you're saying you don't like that Milton
Friedman is not compassionate and
perhaps he's not compassionate but he is
giving people the right to make those
decisions for themselves and he feels
that that's more important that their
rights to make decisions for them for
themselves really supersede thing right
of the government to interfere and make
those
decisions on an individual's behalf and
I think that that is an important right
that's sacrosanct right that does need
to be protected
but you're safe for you I'm sure
wonderful visual Liberty it's it's the
morality of living a world where I don't
I don't believe my own brothers have the
right to use cocaine or heroin and I do
have some brothers if used both and and
other drugs besides I don't think they
should sorry I don't think they should
boast publicly about it and they do I
don't think they should feel comfortable
I think they should feel ashamed of
their past drug use or present drug use
that my brothers are older than I am now
so some of them have moved on I think
living in a culture where shame and fear
are attached to that kind of drug use
again we're talking about cocaine and
heroin here is in many ways appropriate
given the nature and consequences of
that that drug use for the for the
person using themselves and for anyone
surrounding them I mean the consequences
of your father becoming a cocaine user
for the child or unbelief of devastating
we know this also with some of the
oxycodone some of the painkiller having
a parent of a child become a drug addict
and what you're saying is we talk about
a single mom or something with a mother
who doesn't have a job
you're you want to remove the role of
any possible state agency and taking her
and putting into a treatment center or
indeed put her into prison so that you
you want only you want only the the
employer to enforce drug laws although
strangely you want them to probably
enforce the same standards I want but
when I relate to a police officer I need
the police or the police officer is in
loco parentis mm-hmm I need that police
officer to use his authority responsibly
to protect me you're just using the word
protection parallel yeah why would I
accept the police officer using cocaine
Melton times a week why would I accept a
parent
a mother or a father using cocaine I
think both are acceptable for the same
reason and I don't think we can have
cheap glasses of humanity where we say
okay parents and police parents and
police can't use cocaine Miltonic and
everyone else - or some other cause of
people can that's a difference is if
you're putting someone else in danger if
the public police officer if we find if
you have evidence that puts people in
danger more than you know lipitor then
obviously the government whatever I'll
give you that but never make a law that
the police officers cannot do those
things well I understand I I Pro found
Li believe that we're equal to police
officers and that we are putting other
people in danger I think that if I work
on a construction site are you no no I
mean no I'm fingers embark on diversity
let me let me say my professors at
University some of my professors have
been drug users drug addiction exists
amongst university professors and what
happens with their authority which is
not the authority to physically handcuff
people but when professors misuse their
authority as unbelievably devastating
effects on the lives of their students
and is sorry it's a good example no and
and and the employer is not interested
in enforcing those laws the employer is
not interested in the employer is not
interested in taking the students side
it's not gonna be knit and so you and I
probably both have known some examples
of professors who were at least
alcoholics if not into cocaine and other
drugs did you say we're not gonna name
names I know examples of that okay I
you say you so you've now it sort of
conceded a criterion here if it
negatively impacts other people whom you
have something powerful all of us have
that kind of power whether it's me as a
parent to my five-year-old daughter so
she's turning five soon as does she not
5:00 yet as we're with this whether it's
me as a parent to my five-year-old
daughter birthday's coming up or it's a
professor in his classroom or it's a
construction worker and bleeding on
construction sites on construction sites
JA drugs are
are a big issue you know but but but for
me I think the unexamined life is not
worth living for men for all of mankind
I don't look I don't look at a
construction worker as inferior it's a
great question that's a great question
but I've already got I've already got an
answer Japan has already done it I don't
have to point to some kind of
hypothetical paradise scenario countries
like Japan have already made heroine
illegal and cocaine illegal and they've
made some classes of addictive pain
pills illegal too this is the University
notes okay so that's that's that's a
perfectly reasonable counter so that is
that is a perfectly reasonable
counter-argument but here's my can't
argument that so like nicotine also you
can argue causes cancer but nicotine and
alcohol you know I'm also against sorry
for anyone is new to the channel Nick
I'm also against cigarettes and alcohol
based artists babe could you bring me
some water so I have no I have no water
my girlfriend's in that kitchen all
right oh this has been a discussion with
that up without a break for for water if
you're getting on an airplane and you
see the pilot standing in front of the
airplane before he goes in to fly it and
he's just finished smoking a cigarette
and he stubs out the cigarette mm-hmm
that doesn't present the same problem
for his competence to fly the airplane
as if he's just snorted cocaine I would
say without goal without oh no no no no
but that is no with with alcohol I think
it is possible to drink alcohol multiple
times per week and still be a pilot I
don't recommend it I think you'd have
you know you can imagine what the
problems are already I recommend
everyone be sober but is it possible for
a pilot to drink alcohol on Saturday and
be hungover on Sunday and fly an
airplane on money it's not only possible
it's really happening all over the world
pilots are doing that is it possible but
by contrast is it possible
for a pilot to have or a police officer
or a parent to have that kind of habit
with cocaine and heroin no I think there
are there are significant differences
here and that's why I think the people
in Japan I don't think the Japanese are
perfect
believe me I've studied Japan formally
new versus Japan has all kinds of
political and social problems it's
messed up
hmm I'm not glorifying Japan but my
point is you ask to taught you has to
totally good questions first you asked
okay well how do you decide what what
drugs are leaking once you leave oh I
say
I already agree with the standard that's
there in Japan you know so I don't want
something impossible or unattainable and
then to you asked well what is the
difference between cocaine and heroin
and alcohol and I added in cigarettes
and I answered I think there really is a
difference oh sorry go ahead go and
speak I have one more example there are
but there are not that many drugs that
are worse than alcohol in terms of the
effects that they have on people they
are used the interesting thing is also
when you talk about addiction addiction
rates for alcohol are hired more people
do become addicted to alcohol and it
negatively affects their lives so and
we've seen how bad a provision is being
I do think that that you know we may
want to make a rule that pilots
shouldn't drink it all ever and maybe
that would be something class of people
which I am completely fine with that I
know you or not but I I'm fine with
having different rules for different
people that's on but not a problem for
me right I want all of us to be
first-class citizens to be second that's
it says I want to be I think it leads to
exactly the situation where the police
see the drug addicts on the street and
the CEO that's ok for you people that's
ok for those people that's what it
that's the attitude of others nobody but
we're talking about there's a legal
problem and so look you used a couple of
terms which are which are totally
legitimate terms but they're not part of
my approach this issue he talked about
the amount of harm he talked about the
propensity for addiction I was involved
with
I've been involved with a couple of
museum projects this one I was just a
little bit involved with the opium
museum in northern Thailand I met the
director and founder and planner of that
museum and I asked him I had a series of
questions for the interview and the
final question was were there any
exhibits from the museum that were
censored the government didn't want you
to have in about opium and he said yes
one of them was a display he wanted to
have kind of an octagonal room with a
big portrait of the whole human body
showing the nervous system and to show
for each of the the drugs what the
effects on the nervous system were so
you know alcohol nicotine the legal
drugs both the illegal drugs and of
course it made heroin seem harmless
because the effects you know listing the
chart lists or the heroin seems harmless
compared to these other drugs right my
argument is not based on harm and it's
not based on propensity for addiction
it's based on responsibility it's based
on decision making it's based on use of
authority and that's why again I talk
about a police officer I I don't accept
no because for me it's ultimately just
philosophical it's about a life that's
not worth living okay to make is because
we do have evidence I was just reading
an article from the the national survey
on drug use on health and they were
talking about
there are frequent users of cocaine so
that's why I was yes yeah yeah bring it
but there are frequent users of cocaine
who are not addicted who go about their
daily lives
I have no more in my personal life and
all right and as you say the cost does
eventually become an issue however I
would say I mean I'm just talking about
people that I've known in Lawton in my
own life people was even on the heroin I
knew I knew what the University was an
ROTC
he drove across the border god I hope
he's not watching
anyway but he drove across the border
and and did his RCTC training he was at
school in Vancouver he would drive down
Seattle and and do a song just
Bellingham across the board do his
training he was addicted to heroin I
would say I mean he might not say he was
addicted but he was definitely a
habitual user it was something that he
did on a regular basis
he used the drug regularly I suppose but
it didn't interfere with his ability to
be a straight-a student it didn't
interfere with his ability to be on a
student to be involved in a high level
within academia at the University to be
an outstanding students with ROTC he did
very well apparently they did not do
regular drug testing in those days but
for your life right but for your own
daughter that's not good enough as you
if your own daughter is using heroin
multiple times per week with all due
respect that's that's counting out
another he's a stellar crackhead that's
what he is teacher he certainly didn't
abuse his power I can only think of God
maybe two people that knew about this
buzz but if you helped him quit heroin
would that be helping him I'm sane when
I look at someone like him I've known
also people who use cocaine habitually
and until it became a financial issue
most of them functioned very well and I
while I don't necessarily think those
people should become police officers
I know police officers who have far
greater problems with alcohol it does
interfere with their ability to carry
out their duties as you stay with your
professor example and is long and
drawn-out and painful as our argument
was about cocaine that is why I stuck to
my guns been on that probably shouldn't
have but if you stayed in your position
that it's acceptable for police officers
to use cocaine multiple times per week
you can retract it now if if your own
daughter says to you in the future
mom I use cocaine multiple times per
week and it's not affecting me in any
way don't worry it's not affecting my
life in any way no I I would not even
believe my daughter if she just told me
dad I've started watching NFL football
for ten hours a week a lot of people do
that but it's not affecting my life in
any way I wouldn't accept that argument
for football and watching football
doesn't cause brain damage yeah I assume
you know about MRI scan and the real
effect in the human brain of football
that's not debatable either one of these
things I would be concerned I would want
to you know investigate treatment
options and help her but do I think that
she should be locked up making it
illegal that making forcing her to get
on her medication her her medication her
these substances on the black market do
I think that that would be a better
thing for her
anything for society I absolutely do not
having people buy adulterated drugs that
will kill them it's bad for crime it's
bad for people as individuals and we see
that in Switzerland there was a
wonderful program that they've even done
I think in Ontario recently where
they're giving people on alcohol so this
is just for alcohol in Canada they're
doing it with heroin in Switzerland but
they are doing it with alcohol in Canada
for alcoholics everything the amount of
alcohol that they need every week and
not trying to get them off alcohol
necessarily some people have gotten
clean thanks to the program because they
give them access to information and
education um if they can improve their
lives that they choose but if they don't
they found the difference is none of
these people are engaging we're not
actually discussing not treatment and
harm reduction methods you go to
Columbia sometimes in the future in the
future your daughter could go to
Columbia again you've been to Columbia
many times your daughter could go back
at any time you have connections to
Columbia and in Columbia using cocaine
is legal what would be your moral basis
for objecting right it's a civil right
she can go and buy cocaine legally and
apparently morally in Cambodia Seraph I
mean in Columbia Cambodia a little slip
there she can buy it and use it multiple
times per week and you're gonna have to
sit and eat this argument that you can
still be a stellar student and do just
great using hard drugs the reality the
medical reality meanwhile the medical
reality is that it causes brain damage
it causes permanent burn just like
huffing glue right but it's perfectly
legal so what why is it not okay why is
it not okay for your daughter to use
cocaine in Columbia multiple times per
week but it is okay for everyone else
what's the difference between making
something illegal whether I'm saying it
I want to see people get off of drugs
it's not that I think they should be
taking drugs that are harmful to them I
just think that we need to not so the
position of Milton Friedman was if
people want to kill themselves
government the government should stand
back and let it and you agreed but not
with your own daughter we're disagreeing
the argument that you you said that
because the right of the individual to
make that decision is of paramount
importance so the right of your own
daughter to start using cocaine multiple
times per week so you see your so your
daughter can Huff glue and your daughter
can use cocaine Milton's week and that's
fine because it's her personal choice
and there's no argument as to why a
democratically elected government would
outlaw a substance that causes brain
damage it's not it's not legal to use
glue as a as a mind-altering substance
is not I'm just mentioning legal use the
glue paper but it's not legal to put in
your nose yes Freeman was saying in
sentence when he was talking yes it was
saying it should be just as legal for
someone to go and do that with with
illicit substances as it is without
qahal it does not mean that we don't
believe it does not mean that people who
advocate drug legalization don't believe
that we shouldn't have strategies to
help people with addiction to get them
out of addiction get them out of drug
use I don't think that everyone should
be using drugs I don't know how many
times I have to say that but I don't
want my daughter using drugs I don't
want you using drugs I don't want your
daughter using drugs but I do think the
drugs should be legal I don't think it's
up for the for the law to tell people
what they can and cannot do I think it's
it's in these situations what we want to
be doing is working on the harm
reduction you're mixing in prescriptive
and descriptive facts you you think it
should not be for the law to that but it
is the law sets a speed limit the law
sets an age of consent for sex in some
places at 16 in some places it's 18
whatever but but there's a law there's a
minimum age there's a maximum speed
limit there's a minimum age for consent
right those are those are those are the
rules we play by yes and something right
right right so why this extraordinary
exception when there's a drug there's a
substance that causes brain damage that
destroys people's lives that I think you
have to concede your own daughter's life
in all probability would be destroyed
would be destroyed or negatively
impacted by using cocaine multiple times
a week or heroin Altimas week why does
it suck why does it seem suddenly that
the remit of democracy that includes sex
and speeding tickets and starting wars
that it stops with cocaine and heroin
why should those be beyond the reach of
legislation there seems to be no
coherent argument and it puts you I
think in a hypocritical position in
terms of a relationship to the police
any relation to your professor your
relationships your own daughter in terms
of authority and both work you're
advocating that they should be made
legal be legal
people should do illegal drugs I I just
hope that clear
okay can you ask the question and I'm
sorry I mean I did ask a question there
about you know why would this be outside
of the scope of legislation that doesn't
make any sense to me
oh no I so in this in this conversation
I haven't put much emphasis on brain
damage I think there is a straight
argument to be made just in terms of
some things are so unhealthy they should
be illegal and brain damage is in a
special class and I think actually you
agree with me even though it's
inconvenient for you to agree with me
I'm not gonna I'm not gonna push on that
but I think there's just an argument
that certain types of gasoline jet fuel
type things I'm sorry I don't think Jeff
fuel cells in there well maybe it is
there are certain types of fuels and
chemicals used in industry where there
are very strict guidelines about being
exposed to it because it'll cause cancer
it can cause brain damage and we have
those guidelines for this thing I I
don't see any reason why we can't just
make cocaine it legal because it causes
brain damage period that's a completely
sufficient reason ah medic medically
assisted suicide okay I can say this II
in cases where the person is able to
express their wish I don't I don't think
it's a problem I'm sorry you know I was
a member of the Buddhist religion for
many years and it's it's actually a
really big deal within Buddhism the main
problems we get into are cases where the
person hasn't been able to speak for 10
years or something so that's kind of
different but if you're talking about
someone who themselves makes a rational
decision to commit suicide no I don't
have problem with at with it their their
their will has been stated and it's it's
clear for example Canada we have the DNR
laws because that's what he's saying
he's not saying it's a good thing he's
saying that it should not be made
illegal to end your life if you want to
end your life
it could endanger your life you have
pharmacological hemp hegemony over your
own body you have the right you have
autonomy to choose what substances go in
your body that's what you say I think I
think that's a very I think that's a
very since insincere argument on your
part because if your daughter goes to a
nightclub in midday een and someone
offers her cocaine where it's legal for
to use cocaine they're not offering her
an electric chair to kill herself
say hey do you want to sit on this
electric chair and sign this form so you
can commit suicide that's a choice
that's a choice your daughter can make
and you and I both agree I think in
principle that if for some reason your
daughter does decide to commit suicide
you know she can under certain
circumstances like signing a form
there's no ambiguity that's okay but she
wouldn't know what she's choosing and
when you choose cocaine when your
daughter goes to nightclubs using pain
she's not choosing an electric hair
she's not she's ain't choosing a noose
around her neck she's choosing a very
appealing and socially acceptable and
foreign substance that's the greatest
harm for people going to nightclubs in
Colombia is caused by the fact that they
have no idea what on earth do you really
believe that you really believe that the
low quality of cocaine causes more harm
I think I don't know if you're aware of
the extent to which your misdirecting
the Ahriman here but you're responding
my question by saying the consequences
for your daughter using cocaine are
trivial compared to the issue of whether
your daughter uses high quality or low
quality cocaine that if your daughter's
gonna use cocaine you wanted to use pure
good-quality cocaine I find that a
remarkable misdirection of of the topic
were discussing I mean that that may be
a legitimate problem for the coke heads
are they're trying to get good
okay I wouldn't mind that my daughter
would do these things and I just I find
that in any sincere argument as well I
feel like with all these things I don't
want anyone in my life doing it to
anything that will harm them the
question I've asked you repeatedly which
you you have refused to answer you've
given kind of growing things was why
would legislation end here in terms of
the brain damage argument we had a very
clear thing we said look so let's say
there's some chemical used in industry
we can make up an imaginary chemical
exposure to this chemical is dangerous
it may be causes brain damage or maybe
causes other health problems and we have
government rules and regulations about
using it okay cocaine is dangerous
cocaine causes brain damage
why is it why are ecological let why is
ecologic laws okay
why is health and safety legit okay and
cocaine yes so I have an answer for you
I have an answer for you and it's very
closely you said how do I stop my
daughter mm-hmm arrest the word the word
arrest literally means stop if you live
in Japan if you live in a country where
drug use is illegal you if your daughter
is choosing to use who came you have the
power of arrest you can intervene with a
police officer and you can take her off
to a rehab clinic where she doesn't have
a choice we said look guess what this is
a choice you leave him and if you're in
Cambodia if you're in Colombia now and
if you're in Colombia now you're giving
that up if in the future Canada has the
same laws as Colombia where it's her
civil right to have cocaine for a
personal use then you can't do that you
can't stop her you can't arrest her
you can't intervene in this because it's
because it's legally permitted if that's
the future you want the generalized
argument made it's really blows Andros
that's the difference between illicit
and an illegal and you know
the drug is the power of arrest and
again you've never answered my questions
quite obviously I I think that
regardless I mean obviously it's my own
child so I have a different attachment
to that child that personal individual
but they do have right to make decisions
for themselves so I just just like
anyone else so I think you want me to be
really notified in my answer I feel like
that's what you're trying to know that
for me but I got it doesn't frighten or
horrify me I would be pretty sad okay so
you come from a school of thought where
like Milton Friedman I think you regard
the people you're legislating with the
kind of callous indifference let let you
say things like let the free market
decide let them kill themselves let them
use drugs today
and I look at all of humanity as one
class and I think the role of the
legislature is to love all mankind as
much as I love my own daughter and to
say in the same way that I don't want my
daughter to live this life I think that
the life of a cocaine addict is not
worth living for my daughter and I don't
think it's worth living for your
daughter and his daughter and her son
and everyone else I don't want two
classes of humanity neither in a lead of
people I care about like my daughter nor
an elite like police officers I have
standards of what makes life worth
living and not worth living like slavery
and abolishing slavery like addiction to
hard drugs like cocaine and heroin and I
want to abolish or remove them for
everyone not just for my daughter and
not just for the police officer but for
all mankind so I have a morally
consistent position and I do not see a
limit to the role of a democratic
legislature when it comes to cocaine any
more than I do for toxic chemicals used
in industry or environmental regulations
or health and safety regulations life
involves making hard choices and
countries like Japan have already done
it it's not a joke
I would and if I was going to be
difficult here I think I think the thing
is that when you say that I'm being
Callison and you know I think you
imagined the role of the legislature
that way as counsel but how removed
someone's autonomy to decide for them
what good I would do that for my
daughter and I think you would do that
for your daughter also you would say
look hon it's right on your daughter's
name but look honey I'm just using honey
as a placeholder you're here in the
slums of Medellin using cocaine multiple
times a week you think it's not
impacting your life negatively but it is
I would intervene if my daughter got
addicted to watching NFL football so and
there's no brain damage involved and
there's no crime involved I'm I'm
totally willing to play that role there
as they say also you have I think
pretended that would be less invasive to
have employers playing that role and I
disagree I think it is fundamentally
less invasive to have the state because
the state has checks and balances the
state has responsibilities to a
legislature into the press and
everything else it's a lot more
transparent than when Microsoft your
employer is doing it or somebody else is
doing it right I'm Way more comfortable
the police reading my secret emails to
find out whether or not I'm a drug
dealer then my employer doing it my
employer it's probably easier form to
remain no these are real differences yes
but you did just say I agree with you on
something I'm not sure what it is you
agree with me I'm not sure but you you
said there was something you in fact
agree with me on okay when it comes to
the daughter example again um I want to
be there for my daughter I want to show
her that I am there for her when she is
ready to get help that I am there that I
will offer her all of the assistance
that she needs in order to get off of
these drugs I will talk to her I will
tell her that I think what she's doing
is dangerous but I will tell her that it
is harmful I will tell her that I am
for her mental health and her well-being
what I will not do is use force to try
and accomplish the ends that I believe
are right for her if she's you know over
the age of 18 etc if she's she's an
emancipated adult I will not do that and
I don't expect the state to do that by
there um I I think that there is a
certain amount of freedom that we have
to give people there is to be able to
appreciate the lies that they look at
Japan they'd only been freedom Japan is
full Japan isn't a giant prison people
with plenty of freedom it's not a
terrible dictatorship unpopular I would
say that if I were at to ever be talking
about public policy and things like that
this is already happening but in Canada
I believe that legalizing marijuana is
the right way to go I probably would
never advocate publicly even though I
have made my position known I would
probably not advocate publicly for
legalizing heroin and cocaine and things
like that and I think that there are
that is a much greater hurdle to
overcome I think that people are not
ready for something like that but I do I
do
hold the beliefs that I hold and I know
that you hold the beliefs that you hold
um you mentioned that you would rather
live in a place like Japan been in your
place like Amsterdam on this issue we're
not talking about other thing when I
think about veganism or something I
think veganism is better answer
thanks to the prohibitionist attitude
they have a very they have a very
prohibitionist attitude towards drugs as
well so I don't think that Amsterdam is
like this drunk paradise yeah but um
yeah I hope that I make my my attitude
here on my daughter like the the
daughter example the government example
the government's role is to be there to
be telling children that drugs are
dangerous to be educating them to help
educate the public to be there
constantly with free education with free
um especially because I think this is a
little bit easier to get in Canada than
in the United States but I know people
in the United States my mom has a very
good friend and her son has been
addicted to heroin and opiates for God
way too many years and and it has
destroyed their family financially
because they don't have health care and
so um so I do recognize that it's very
important to offer those treatment
programs to make them available to
everyone so I agree with you 100% about
that needs to be for everyone but
voluntary but entirely voluntary because
if you're in a country if you're in a
carriers you have situations that
situations where there's a single mom
who uses cocaine multiple times per week
and it's raising her kids and it seemed
completely her civil right to go on
using cocaine multiple times a week
where is your kids the state has no
ability to arrest her to put her into a
rehab facility but that's real and it
means there will be police officers who
use cocaine multiple times a week and
that's their civil right they can go on
being a crackhead and a police officer
that is exactly the world you're signing
up for and I think you know I think you
accept in terms of the rates of cocaine
and heroin use if they are legal as you
say the number of people using them the
body count and the number of lives
destroyed it will increase
I don't think dramatically in the same
way you know I think if speed limits are
abolished most people will continue to
drive the same way most of the time
without any speed limits but once in a
while there people will drive faster
help that they need I think that that
that will help address a lot of those
issues the ocean is an issue that
generally it's really I'm sorry I'm
sorry what is your claim here that only
crazy people use cocaine that's
ridiculous that's ridiculous well why
don't you subtract that what rationale
you've just been arguing before your
card reasons before you argue that
highly effective people who still have a
job is still go to work make the
decision to use cocaine use zero so you
can't now play the other card and say oh
well anyone who's an addict has most of
them have very low inhibitions before
they're with legalization it's gonna
increase what it's going to increase my
claim was if cocaine if cocaine is legal
as opposed to illegal more people will
use cocaine right and once you have a
society where cocaine doesn't have fear
attached to it and doesn't have negative
stigma attached to it more people will
use cocaine some of those people will
become addicts some of them will buy
drug overdose some of them will they
will destroy their lives I'm sorry how
can what do you mean we can do how does
legal as you gain create a superpower
how does it create a superpower or an
unlimited budget forgotten see what
Japan do you think Japan lacks those
things that's a complete lie
look you're setting up many things here
that are just factually not true but
[Applause]
sorry
that somehow drugs being illegal in
Japan makes it difficult or impossible
for people to get treatment it makes it
more difficult most people who are very
who are using drugs seeking help it is a
lot easier if there's less stigma
attached to it and more people will use
the drug this is how we started talking
about veganism and stigma and fear so
you accept more people use the drug more
people who have brain damage more people
who have their lives dented and
destroyed by drug use and by drug
addiction I don't so these are use drugs
today's because they start out with have
you ever used any of these drugs are you
someone who's been so now I've never
used any of these drugs I'm referring
specifically to public policy so I can't
I can't say but we know that people tend
to use so you don't think you don't
think rational people use cocaine
because it's fun oh this is ridiculous I
mean on the ward you want to clean not
you've never used cocaine no I've never
used cocaine that earlier in this
conversation you thought cocaine was
comparable to benadryl no I that's what
that's what's mind-blowing to me let me
tell you something let me tell you
something the effects of cocaine
I have a very hard time you okay you
don't think you could use benadryl three
times a week without destroying your I
think you can I I think you're deeply in
denial about many things here including
the nature of what these drugs are and
what their effects on on people are I
mean uh it's it's my I'm going to me
I mean you your response your response
am I saying people use cocaine because
it's fun was well they can find other
ways of having fun who you know Nancy
Reagan like no sense this makes no sense
if cocaine is cheap and legal and
available with no impurities which
you've said you you deserve so high
quality cocaine available at low prices
with no stigma and no fear and no law
against it more people are gonna use it
and it's nothing like signing up to
commit suicide which was you're a DNR
tag or a P or or does it is nothing like
that okay
cocaine affects you mentally
psychologically sexually it affects your
sense of self-esteem your sense of
physical strength your endurance your
experience of pain cocaine as they say
in the province of our times is one hell
of a drug and I think the fact that
you've never done it I think you've come
into this thinking you're the worldly
sophisticated one and you're naive as a
twelfth grader on this issue I think you
have no idea what kind of point out what
kind of Pandora's Box you're talking
about when when people start using
cocaine and that is why they become
terrible parents and terrible police
officers and why whiskey doesn't really
have that dramatic and effect I'm
totally against whiskey also but no the
effect on your life of cocaine and how
it changes the way you perceive
everything else in your life including
your your relationship with your husband
or wife and relationship with your kids
yes seeing as we're comparing this to
the number zero I have used cocaine
infinitely more times than you yes and
Anna and I did so this is really in
keeping with my character I did so after
I just finished reading a significant
tome a scientific book it wasn't just
about the science and chemistry of
cocaine and its effects but it was about
the whole history of pseudoscience of
misperceptions and misunderstandings of
cocaine how it was in first interpreted
as a miracle cure went through the whole
the whole history of this there were two
related books I read but that one in
particular really really impressed me
and I realized there's something here no
I didn't say everyone I'm an example of
someone who will never use cocaine again
because I have a I have a philosophy I
have an idea
I will also never watch a football game
again I'm a very unusual person that way
right but I mean there's there's what's
worth living in life and there's what's
noteworthy I'll probably also never go
downhill skiing there's all kinds of
things I think are meaningless and I
think they're destructive and bad and
they're self-destructive and they have
negative impacts and other people that's
true but if you I mean do you want to
live in a society where 10% of people
just to pick a number I think that's a
low estimate or cocaine users or would
you rather live in a country like Japan
where an incredibly small but it's not
zero but incredibly small people in the
presented people are cooking users for a
variety of reasons yes including you
know enforcement enforcement and fear
and stigma and all those things
that's absolutely addiction was a huge
problem we did know that's that's quite
false again that was covered in that
same book I read the period of cocaine
being legal and the consequences for it
the period of heroin being legal in
China leading to the opium wars there
was a period when opium was legal in the
British Empire made their money growing
opium ins
and it became a mass epidemic that
destroyed Chinese society I can quote
the official but surely does that
history not matter does the history of
what happened and you think you think
you can take a hit of cocaine and not go
crazy just just a little bit I'm not I'm
not taking anything at face value
look I remember seeing an official
history of China from the the Chinese
government in which they said succinctly
and they included this statistic that
more than one in four adult men were
opium users by the by the time the open
Mohr's birth there was a level of social
addiction was amazing let me just point
it also lets let's include a white
people example in England in the 17th
century the rate of alcohol consumption
there nobody drank water everyone
including children drank beer three
meals a day if they didn't drink wine
and whiskey in addition that you had a
whole society of drunks so nearly by
today's standards are 100 percent
alcoholism rate and 17th century history
reflects that it's mass addiction is
possible and historically its actual
it's happened but yes the the outbreak
of epidemics of addiction to these drugs
you know epidemic levels of the bean
disaster I think right now it's not as
extremist as trying time but it is it is
widely seen that right now the effects
of drugs in in Mexico or some kind of
disaster Mexico's going through a very
tough time why I say that but look so
let me right now with with tradition
again I just say this you don't think
it's a problem when a parent
collects their own children because
their driving forces abroad of course
it's a problem that that's not
enforcement that's the problem that's
the actual drug use Suman this is a this
is a huge problem unfortunately they
could be using alcohol okay so in what
sense can you dismiss my my position
that way of putting things in the closet
prohibiting drug use for is going to
improve them on that's going to become a
drug addict they do that because of
psychological issues so you switch
between two positions sometimes you
claim drug addicts are totally normal
people who can hold a job or it can even
be a police officer while using cocaine
or heroin three times a week and
sometimes you claim the only reason why
people become drug users or drug addicts
is because they have deep-seated
psychological arms which would just
exhibit themselves anyway in something
equally as harmful that's a ridiculous
argument I don't accept that not with
cocaine I think it's very clear but the
great thing about YouTube is you can go
back and watch it again um in northern
Laos where I did humanitarian work and a
lot of research and so on and China over
a longer period of time another example
when I was up there of course some of my
research was in a library but some was
actually oh those villages there was a
lot of cynicism from left-wing people
that what the Lao government was doing
at that time in eliminating opium use
was pointless because they said what you
said you've said it now and you said it
email and different context that somehow
if you eliminate heroin use opium use
etc that some other drug will replace it
that's that's just as bad I think that's
a totally false argument and I don't
think you believe it yourself if your
daughter quit cocaine and started
drinking beer it's not the same that's
just nonsense I just what sir just to
finish the issue with with Laos I saw
for myself and other people so I
remember one guy admitted he was wrong
he didn't you know he wasn't happy to
him it was wrong but there was a village
there's a long history with opium less
you know heroin is a reform fun heroin
is a reformed meet here who does he
refined form of opium um but there in
some ways the same drugs and was not
they had this long history of it and you
know guess what when in that village
opium was replaced with alcohol and
cigarettes life got better for everybody
yes people drank alcohol instead of used
heroin you think that's not if they
think it's not a difference for your
daughter as one individual and her life
in her career do you think it's not a
difference for a social unit like a
village or a nation on a whole it's an
unbelievable difference it transforms
the whole society you think there's no
difference between having a park with a
bunch of literal crackheads whether it's
cocaine or heroin staggering around the
park you think there's not a difference
between that and a society like Scotland
when I lived in Scotland there were a
lot of drunks stagger around Scotland
it's different it's a difference worth
appreciating it's a difference worth
fighting for it does do yes but my point
is here there's it there's a tremendous
difference between beer and opium or
beer and cocaine that everyone else is
is willing to admit except you and again
you say you've never used any of these
drugs maybe that makes it worse I I know
what effects whiskey have on me I know
what effects cocaine have on me and I
know that other people have even less
ability to cope with those effects I do
know there's a tremendous fundamental
difference now that's true on the scale
of the individual whether it's your
daughter or it's a complete stranger
whether it's your employee or your
employer having a boss
that's using cocaine three times a week
your life is hell you don't want to have
a boss uses cocaine three times and it's
not your choice you can't discipline
them the government can the government
can arrest them what if it's the owner
of Microsoft what if it's your boss what
if that's the relationship authority and
then what if it's your employee
that's a tough spot - okay so I'm the
manager on a construction site what am I
supposed to do beat up my own employee I
can't
that's a role for the police it's a role
for the government I think actually deep
down inside you feel that way you don't
really want the employer taking on that
that role but whether it's one person
your daughter and employee or your boss
that's one thing you scale it up on to
the village level mmm
talk about a village in Laos where all
the people with money and power and guns
are opium lords or opium teams as
opposed to a village where the people
have a lot not comparing it's paradise
mm-hmm a village where the people with
money and power are people who own a bar
that sells alcohol and quite possibly a
brothel that sells prostitutes I'm again
I'm not saying they went from being an
opium den town they went from being an
opium no I think you'll miss my point in
the period where opium was used openly
it wasn't a facto legal there was an
effect no authority governing it and in
some villages in Laos the authorities
actually encouraged it and taxed it
which is kind of a bit of an open secret
so they had a period where what it was
de facto legal they also had a period
where the whole country had no written
law whatsoever so was neither legal nor
legal and local authorities allowed so
they really as a contrast between it
being licit and it actually being
stamped out and it was it life changes
profoundly you know no I'm also against
you know drinking whiskey but again I
think you're you're lying to yourself
you're lying to others if you pretend
that's not a difference whether it's
your own daughter drinking if she starts
drinking whiskey three times a week that
is one thing if she starts using cocaine
or heroin three times a week that is
something completely profoundly
different and you scale it up and that
village that village in Laos having
sober police officers enforcing the law
there as opposed to and this is a huge
problem in Afghanistan authority figures
who are themselves
dopeheads or themselves okay the police
officer who just cooked in a few times a
week we still get that today but instead
of them being able to openly seek help
and everything like that they would be
fired immediately they would lose their
job like there's there's no it's very
very difficult to address those problems
when you have prohibition I just think I
don't think the price is worth the cost
I don't think that I don't I don't think
that it makes the world a much better
place and you said yourself that you
don't think that drug use would increase
that dramatically if it were legal so
that's your own words significant but it
won't be dried Oh not you know I'm not
indulging in the sort of hysterical view
that it's gonna grow absolutely
financially and there are examples from
Europe and show someone that show modest
increase but not society collapsing and
everyone becoming I say that also with
speed limits if you get rid of speed
limits many people well I think I think
position is one thing I think the
objective you're pursuing something
we're seeing maybe that'll wrap up this
discussion um in the past and email you
I think you you misrepresented or
misunderstood or both my position by
saying to me you wrote at one point um
you know making these drugs illegal is
not gonna solve the underlying problems
of poverty and racism and another
terrible things and my response does
look like I feel that's really dishonest
I'm not talking about solving poverty
solving poverty in Japan is a separate
issue solving poverty and allows the
different issues alleviating poverty in
Canada is if we can talk about that or
eliminating racism I'm not talking about
underlying issues I'm talking about this
issue it's true it's true also but just
to keep parallel if we speed limits do
not solve the underlying causes for why
people drive their cars too fast there
are underlying causes which could be
addressed by building a better train
system public transport may
rent cheaper so people can live closer
to their piece of place of employments
than ought to drive for 45 minutes to
get to work there are underlying reasons
but if we believe speed limits are a
good thing we believe it's a good thing
in itself and I'm actually advocating
for drugs being illegal as a good thing
in itself in getting across that
sincerity I think was step one for me is
that I'm not sure officers be doing
cocaine a couple times a week I you know
I'm willing to change my mind about
things this is not when you run for
mayor I'm gonna quote you that the press
the newspaper is gonna say mud vegan is
running from there but she says police
officers used cocaine three times a week
[Laughter]
I want to think about it I have yours -
I mean it's not it's not it's a big
issue
I'm sorry one thing I do want to talk
about very briefly is it I live right
next to probably one of the largest
concentrations of homeless in my city
yeah and and I know these people I talk
to them on a regular basis and and when
you talk to them the number one problem
for all of them especially the older
ones like I guess maybe it's because
they're still alive but they're all
deeply addicted to alcohol right and um
it causes all sorts of problems for them
and I think you know there's the people
that are addicted to drugs there's the
people that are addicted to alcohol a
lot of them will do
substance crosses their path anything
most of them will like they prefer
alcohol but if something comes their way
they'll do that and it's just it seems
really clear to me that's the kind of
problem that you were talking about if
we return this to the problem that you
were discussing in Vancouver maybe you
do see more people who are addicted to
heroin and things like that but I still
remember my grandfather in Texas telling
me the same thing when he was growing up
in East Texas like in extremely rural
poverty those people obviously didn't
add drugs you know but almost every
single person you knew died of
alcoholism like you just thought all the
time you would tell me stories of seeing
people and it was so interesting excuse
it was always saying like you'd see them
shaking in the street from alcohol and
it was a horrifying him he never drank
you just found it completely off-putting
and I get it I went to thank whoever do
you think I would ever try heroin after
seeing some of the stuff I saw they're
like no way but on but I don't think
that it's necessarily the legality of
the substance alcohol ruins people's
lives alcohols makes people abusive it
does all sorts of things but I think
it's because there's underlying issues
there but these people that I'm seeing
all the time they're not gonna get cured
or made worse by the situation I think
though if there's two points you could
take from this I think you've got to
drop the underlying issues thing because
in the same way I think it's not kind of
fair or helpful to say about speed
limits well speed limits aren't gonna
solve the underlying issues I don't
think it's fair to say this and the
second thing is to drop this argument of
based on false equivalence because you
know I mean as I say it's not the same
on one scale if your daughter's doing
cocaine three times a week or if she's
drinking alcohol their homes it's not
the same there is no quotes any many of
your arguments rely on saying to me that
if people do not use these illegal drugs
if they don't use cocaine and heroin
then they'll just use something else
like alcohol or glue anyway we could
make it someone who is addicted to
cocaine and someone who is addicted to
alcohol cause if you talk
I'm talking about I'm talking with all
use though I really am but but police
officer okay because that's a real thing
alcoholism yes to who smells so strong
with alcohol nine-month warning so
addiction so if we're talking about an
addiction then I can very clearly state
that the societal arms for both are
equal if we're talking about okay so so
I don't think you truly believe that and
I can I can demonstrate it at both ends
of the scale and this is to me like
Socrates I think you're making an
argument that you do not believe
yourself so the three very rapid points
that Rab because he already says that
one
you know that alcohol causes some brain
damage
it causes some I've made arguments on
this channel that people should quit
drinking alcohol because of brain damage
well Jimmy use distance let me finish
this let me finish the levee visitants
alcohol causes some brain damage cocaine
causes more brain damage I mean you know
this I've seen MRI scan that Amiga Lou
it's it's pretty awesome but you know
I'm interested in all you so I'm
interest no use that's one well you know
it's not the same I mean you know huh
but look it doesn't even matter cocaine
huffing glue so huffing glue which in
some countries maybe Italy gourds you
huffing alcohol causes some brain damage
huffing glue causes more brain damage
wait it's not the same it's not the same
in it you can have an intervention
whether it's with your own nobody any
level of glue huffing causes brain
damage and it causes a lot more than
drinking beer or drinking whiskey you
know this so it is it is fundamentally
false to treat these as equivalent or to
say in a resigned way well if people
aren't huffing glue they're just gonna
drink alcohol and as you you just
claimed so the societal damage do the
same of course it's not the same of
course it's different
the issue of addiction they are all
relatively the same like if you were
going to be an addiction if you I will
just say I think even if you had just
tried huffing glue using cocaine using
heroin you even on that one level of one
person you would not claim for an
instant that it's the same that's my
honest opinion I know you can you can
meet people I think you can ask those
same homeless people and if they have
done all these drugs I think they will
agree with me no it's really not the
same really it's not the same in many
many ways it was like so again I would
say with my own daughter it's completely
different if it's alcohol versus cocaine
whether and she was fine but then when
you scale it up when you look at a heavy
drinking society like Canada or Russia
or Scotland
I've lived in both Canada and Scotland I
haven't lived in Russia if you were to
on that scale if you replaced alcohol
with cocaine you don't think there would
be a tremendous transformation at all
sorry
you actually think the social damage if
if as the default drug people are using
both using and abusing at all levels
whether using occasionally or using
heavily if you removed alcohol and you
made cocaine available and it was used
the same levels no but mod you don't see
logically that this is very much
directly selling you made the claim that
the social impact is the same it's not
the same you're admitting if you can
recognize oh all use if you look at
China in the era of the opium wars when
opium was the main drug used by everyone
when opium was in that society like beer
and again in northern Laos just a few
decades ago we had societies with that
that it is worse being at a village in
Laos where heroin is commonly used
it is not the social impact is not the
same as being in a town full of drunks
it's not heroin heroin really is
different from alcohol but that is your
arguments sway ok can you not recognize
that you've just conceded argument
without saying it your your argument was
that the social impact is the same for
alcohol and for these other drugs and
that therefore you can make this
argument for equivalence and I've just
challenged that and I think you are
conceding without wanting to admit that
you're conceding it that no in fact
they're not equivalent they are
profoundly different on the level of the
individual and the level of a society as
a whole whether there's one village or
one country your argument was built on
these claims your argument has build
these clans an L so now you're being it
that there really is a difference that
there really is a difference yes but but
the point is the the harm to society and
the harm dividual people would not be
the same if instead you lived in China
in the air of the open wars if you lived
in a society where it was open a most
amazing it's a real historical example
rather than hypothetical one what am I
asking you what am I asking you I'm not
no no I'm not no I'm not that's not the
question the question
the question right everyone they're
still drinking alcohol alcohol is still
the socially dominant drug your argument
I was saying is based on a false
equivalence that you've stated in many
ways including the statement if people
don't have access to these illegal drugs
if the government doesn't make them
legal at high quality but the government
making high quality cocaine and heroin
illegal which is what Milton Friedman
wanted letting people kill themselves
letting people overdose if the
government doesn't do that it doesn't
matter because you ordered you argued
the social impact of drugs is equivalent
it will be the same if they can't use
that drug and they instead use alcohol
and that is completely false like the
number of people and I told you already
that I believe that alcohol addiction is
harmful I know but that's that's exactly
what to say alcohol is just as harmful
as cocaine is ridiculous you know brain
pain so I've already made simple one
brain damage to the effects on an
individual three the effects and
society's whole in aggregate those are
the three grounds I point out to you
they're all different there is no
equivalent so but but you conceded all
three grounds but the the brain damage
isn't the same you know this you can see
to this for any of you well it's true of
addiction also but you concede the point
other way I mean you can see that brain
damage is not the same you can see that
the effects on the individual whether
it's your daughter or a policeman or a
parents or your boss or your employee is
not the same and you admit that the
effects on society are not the same well
so you have completely conceded your
argument you're just refusing to admit
that you have the same number of people
are going to become
either way because it is a health issue
with the mental wellness issue it is not
just a you've already conceded that's
not true but maybe 30 minutes ago that
no it's not the case that only people
with mental health problems use cocaine
completely sane hard-working people use
okay
this is like the notion of Scotsman this
is like the no true Scotsman fallacy
like what only people with some kind of
deep mental problem become drug guys
that's ridiculous you and I know normal
people who become drug addicts sure
anyone can become a drug addict sure
yeah I know people I know people who
became a drug addict because they were
in the hospital and they were put on
prescription meds like they'd literally
no choice they were strapped down to a
hospital bed and they'd become addicted
to exposure to no completely people yes
yes they do you can become addicted that
we're known people it's happen - sure no
no they're there in law school for a
long time that's the point they're
strapped down in hospital bed getting
employment and then one day and then
when they leave they have to struggle to
quit the drug people get addicted to
drugs and all kinds of circumstances no
it's it's ridiculous for you to say the
one in sent simultaneously that
perfectly normal rational people can
still hold down a job while using
cocaine three times a week and therefore
it should be a civil right and should be
legalized and you claim then whenever
it's convenient for you that no it's not
possible for the social impacts of
cocaine to be worse because if they
weren't using cocaine they'd be using
alcohol and that's the same like living
in a society where it's like whatever
percentage it is living in a society
where two percent of people are
alcoholics or it could be ten percent
let's say it's two percent you don't see
that as different from living in a
society where two percent of people are
cocaine addicts or two percent of people
are or heroin addicts it's a completely
false argument the social impacts are
different the brain damage is different
the health impacts are different and the
effects on the individual are very
different in their life they're very
different why would they be the same
agree with you because this bats and
brain damage yeah if two percent of the
population are heroin addicts or two
percent of the population are are
alcohol addicts yes its social impact
playing well how absurd so in in what in
what sense given all the things you can
seed it in again it could be glue
huffing why not concede glue huffing
really is different from drinking
whiskey and cocaine really is different
from whiskey why the only argument the
only thing is you're claiming false
equivalence so you can justify so so so
it's not it's not the case that there
are dramatically fewer drug addicts in
China today than in the era of the opium
war it remains the same it's not the
case
you've even argued maybe even argue that
harm reduction you've argued that harm
reduction and legalization leads to
there being fewer addicts so I don't
know an example that but you must have
an example of a country where the number
of addicts dramatically declined isn't
that possible isn't it possible that the
number of addicts can dramatically
increase in dramatically declined and
that we have myriad real historical
examples of that that correlate to
different drug policies I'm sorry mod
your argument is profoundly nonsensical
and I hope you watch this video later
and see that I can't keep repeating
myself but you are actually carding this
is profoundly logically flawed I don't
want to act like ask yourself and like
force you to omit this but like you
admit the brain damage is not the same
and then you want to turn around say no
it's the same you admit the social
impacts are not the same then you want
to say no it's the same and your
reasoning here is that allegedly the
percentage of people who are addicts
doesn't change but that's not the only
issue even if I concede at that point
you would still be wrong even if the
percentage of people who are addicts
were the same in 19th century China and
21st century China which is a complete
lie there's a dramatic change in that
society and the number of people using
opium still even if the percentage of
people is the same the point is the
effects including brain damage including
the effects and what kind of parent you
are or what type of a police officer you
are what type of pot you are are
profoundly different being in a
society that normalizes and accepts
cocaine use as opposed to one that
stigmatizes it is opposed to it and
throws people in prison for it really is
different and you can see that in again
where I wasn't Laos with with heroin you
could see it in the same village in two
different periods of history that are
close together life really changed for
people in those villages and as you see
when I was in Perpignan so different you
I don't think of this as a rich people's
issue being poor person unfortunately I
wish I could relate to all of these
examples I completely accept her
examples of Laos and things like that
that's that's fine um I
with the opium wars from what I've
understood it was I it seems like it's
very difficult to get exact numbers as
to the number of the people that were
addicted and things like that I can't
say that in Colombia
at the same time that you know the drug
use is increased and we're not talking
indicative but use wala increase crime
has dropped dramatically yes
but also poverty has dropped
dramatically and a lot of things have
changed people in poverty is the civil
war has ended
I'm sorry but look look but do you do
you think I mean you know what I've
tried to be respectful although trench
in German sorry but do you do you think
do you think that's actually a
reasonable question fine you just asked
me you don't you think poverty is
related to drug use
I mean what's what's the point of your
question I think sometimes people have
more money they do produce but with the
crime I was talking about the crime
right the crime and issue was because
most of the cultivation was happening in
that country now that it's moved out of
the country I mean this is someone
unrelated but the war its basic turn
your point was which is a regional point
that drug use has increased while crime
has decreased and I said yes poverty has
also decreased poverty has improved so
that's consistent with exactly that so I
mean it's not like you're gonna
undermine my argument by saying don't
you believe it's linked to this issue
you know
doesn't necessarily lead as you've been
saying like the use of drugs the
legalization of drugs does not lead
inexorably to higher crime it doesn't
lead inexorably to terrible parents it
doesn't lead inexorably to all these
things like as long as you're in a
society where they're attempting to
address these issues where they're
educating people this is not you know
MIT China in the Middle Ages like we're
trying to we're trying to educate people
we're trying to inform them about things
I don't think that it's fair to use
historical examples like that when we're
making we're making inroads we're trying
to help understand people and help them
with their issues I think it's a very
different situation and I don't think
that criminalization helps anyone it
just it kicks the can down the road it
forces violence and crime in places that
are outside of our vision this isn't
really solving the world's problems okay
III disagree I think criminalization
helps everyone so I'm at the opposite
extreme on that um why if my own bias
you know I'm also totally against
alcohol like I think everyone should
quit doing out well that's what I think
however if you ask me can you be a good
cop and drank alcohol three times a week
the answer is yes can you be a good
parent and drink I'll call three times a
week the answer is yes I have to concede
that I think you would be an even better
cop or a better parent if you quit yoga
that's my opinion
but I have to concede that I do not
believe you can be a good police officer
while using cocaine three times a week I
do not believe you can be a good parent
not or at least maybe for one week you
can maybe for one week if you do that
but over any length of time over ten
years a parent using cocaine three times
a week and I think why don't know why
you like cocaine so much you never tried
it you should you should try it it'll
change your whole perspective on this
issue I think you would can see how can
you be a good parent while huffing glue
three times a week
there is no equivalence these things are
legislated unequally because they really
are unequal you believe your argument
legalization might increase use of drugs
isn't that complex at all it doesn't
rely on any difference that's why I'm
saying it doesn't rely on any of these
these expects postulations some
substances cause more brain damage than
others
same with industrial pollution same with
a workplace regulation same with health
and safety was same with ecology and
everything else
my your perspective relies on the
assumption any recreational drug is
equal to all so either they all have to
be legal or they all have to be illegal
and you make arguments on that basis
from my perspective there is a no no
Ison tributed that to you I said you are
arguing from a false equivalence here
that the damage to society and the
damage to people is the same or
approximately the same for cocaine
heroin huffing glue and drinking alcohol
and I'm saying no it is different and
that's why we can ensure legislate and
the damage to our personal and civil
liberties is greater and therefore they
should be legal do the people of Japan
lack civil liberties right now they lack
the ability to be able to use you know
marijuana without having current without
going to prison correct yeah UKUSA
controlling their drugs their drug
supply Canadians make a whole lot of
money selling drugs to Japan and you
know that that's that's one way that a
lot of people make a living I don't
think that it's necessarily a good thing
so that's terrible that people in Japan
lack access to high-quality cheap legal
cocaine that's having really negative
effects in their society you think no
but that's Japan we're talking about a
real world example so people in Japan
people in Japan it's very hard for them
and very risky for them to use cocaine
and you think that's a that's a bad
thing in contrast to Colombia where it's
legal and readily available well I
[Music]
personally personal use of cocaine is
legal in Colombia
that's the law it's a very liberal oh
yes okay we go to a nightclub in
Medellin you think it's hard to get
cocaine no obviously it's easy and it's
over
it's overts and it's and there's and
there's no Sheamus ooh they don't have
to hide it anymore
you don't have to hide it I know you
didn't go to a nightclub where people
using cocaine where people use cocaine
openly well unicorn thrown a clubs I
mean you realize this isn't something I
have to dig deep to get a footnote to
prove there are nightclubs in Medellin
where people are openly using cocaine
and they do so because they're not
afraid of being put in prison for using
credible documented I didn't say all
nightclubs there Ari that's not how it
works yeah I think I think I think they
do it on a table inside the nightclub
and they do it partly to look cool and
probably you attract the interest of
women so so nobody in Medellin nobody
I'd have to look really hard I mean I've
already looked at articles before this
kind of safer nobody in nightclubs in
Medellin is doing cocaine this is what
your your let me ask you let me Susan
you don't think there are people who
show off doing cocaine in the United
States of America right now on Instagram
oh yeah you don't think there were
people who show off using cocaine in
nightclubs in Los Angeles
cuz it's cool because it attracts
because people do it in Medellin also
we're all human and it's legal right
what I'm saying is that it doesn't
increase the amount of people doing it
publicly that was your argument in the
beginning it is illegal in the United
States it is prohibited they can go to
prison and the and they boast about
doing it anyway they will do it on
Instagram they're still doing it anyway
and they're not doing it much more
visibly in Colombia
no it's not try going there I I don't
know why so that's your argument your
entire argument is that they do it in
the US
why don't you look why don't you leave
if you're talking about that um that the
shame is good the criminalization is
good like you said like a rest it's good
but is it really that good if people are
still doing it publicly
it is not legal in the United States
people are still doing it publicly as
you said that is your argument online
okay so you really think that is my
argument cuz I mean I can I can repeat
[Music]
in spite of a massive drug war people
still do drugs in the United States
despite everything you know how does
that contradict in any way whatever
saying so I mean it is not terribly
effective okay so you think drug policy
in Japan is not effective um it might be
effective in Japan there's other places
that have very draconian drug laws like
the United States where it is not
effective which shows that countries are
different yes I'm aware of this I mean
this is what my argument is not based on
a denial of reality whereas yours is you
were arguing that nobody in a nightclub
in Medellin is openly and boastfully
using cocaine and I countered that by
pointing out to you that right now in
the United States pardon me this is why
I mentioned people using cocaine in Los
Angeles people right now in the United
States are openly in boastful using
cocaine even on Instagram even in
nightclubs and they do it partly because
it's cool you need to ignore these
factors what's right a very very small
number of people but drug use especially
hard drug use like this is it's
fractional to an unbelievable sentiment
they've an incredibly low rate of drug
use there it is indeed partly because
they have a very robust culture of both
legislation and shame enforcement and
shame there are real
around reviews in the United States if
you go to so let me let me ask you the
opposite it's a very good question but
you're asking it with them presumed with
with a presume do you do you not think
there is a culture of celebrating drug
use United States do you not think today
I've heard maybe tan rap songs
celebrating drug use of something cool
and edgy
you don't think I listen I listen to
real rap music I listen to 50 cent and
Lil Wayne and they brag about cocaine
and how it helps you get laid with women
and how it makes you the cool guy at the
nightclub and I think you're dreaming if
you think those same factors don't exist
in Medellin or in you know all over the
world basically those same pressures
indeed but they added much much lower
lower rate Japan is a very successful
example of tour policy pardon excuse me
you were just saying that it's
glamorization of drug use so they don't
ever I mean I don't know you asked the
question does America have a culture of
shame with drug use that is partly true
yes but it's also true that America has
a culture of glamourizing drug use no
well okay we both know it's it's
tremendously different because in Japan
they've been much much more successful
but indeed if you listen to Japanese
right you're gonna find it but it is
indeed but it's different sorry sue do
you actually think there's no difference
between Mexico Colombia Los Angeles and
Japan there's a profound difference we
both know we've shared the statistics by
email before this conversation again I
don't really
we're trying to compare all these
different countries they have different
policies every single one of the words
that you've mentioned Colonia is only
now starting a very becoming 1999 1994
they legalized you know why because they
were spending all of their it was a
Supreme Court decision yeah but it was
they were very
and hearing harsh drug laws very harsh
drug laws for a very long time right he
didn't work they didn't work right so so
and you've got the same with if we look
at Islamic countries countries that have
it your your argument is that the level
of drug addicts will be the same anyway
that's what you argue although all of
these historical examples include
including the ones you choose prove that
you're wrong the number of dragons can
vary dramatically from one period of
history to another in China and from one
period district other in Laos or in
comparing Los Angeles to Osaka Japan or
whatever Tokyo Japan of course things
like that obviously because you have
people using cleaner drugs safer drugs
right but but what it doesn't help with
is the brain damage does it you're
getting this is again this is the the
implicit fallacy of talking about
underlying problems as opposed to the
problem I don't want to talk about the
side effects of drugs like oh you use
cocaine so me but that's implicitly no
no no no no no I no no we're talking
about cocaine which argue about heroin
but if you if you want to talk about
crimes committed by cocaine addicts
that's different
what your position is is like Milton
Friedman you want to say oh just let
them kill themselves I I think that is I
think that is evil I think that is evil
well I think and it is not to prevent
them from committing other crimes I've
never once said that I have never once
said in sermon you're attributing that
to me in passing I've never once said we
should arrest cocaine addicts to stop
them from committing theft I have said I
have said coke my objective here this
was actually what I was gonna ask the
disclosing question is what is the
actual objective you you want facility I
want to live in a society of
predominantly sober people with very low
rates of drug use I don't think it's
attainable to have zero so that's why I
don't say zero Japan in 2018 which has
astoundingly low crime rates and they're
still getting lower amazingly unlike
Colombia unlike Mexico unlike Los
Angeles it's a very successful society
in that way enforcement is only
with crime rates are much lower but now
they're lower than Japan right now but
the crime rate in Colombia is not
preferable to Japan you know the level
of human sake we have to acknowledge
that we need to base it on you know what
it was ten years ago versus what it is
today so so right now why do you think
your D railing the argument or not I
mean you feel like you were talking
about like a society of love and
everything like that like that's what
you want you want a society of sober
people I'd like that I think it's
unrealistic and I think that making
drugs illegal causes untold harm so
that's just that's the difference
because my harm is what matters to me
and so I think but I don't know but this
is what so you just asked you just asked
why aren't you moving the goalposts and
I said no I'm not I'm just talking about
the direct brain damage and the direct
damage people's lives caused by by
cocaine you can't claim that there's
less harm because cocaine itself causes
harm I think you're the one using an
insert that's why in terms of the harm
on your brain on your person and on
society that three levels have already
talked about you can't argue that for
huffing glue either so you're you're
claiming no no okay hold on please
please let me actually respond to you
you brought in the issue of crimes
committed by people who are cocaine
addicts or cocaine users what what have
you and I've said you know I'm talking
about them actually using cocaine not
whether or not they commit crimes to buy
cocaine because I actually care as with
my own daughter I care that you're
wasting your life ruining your life
causing yourself brain damage and there
are of course other negative impacts on
society that society as a whole whether
it's the village of the town of the city
it is worse off if 10% of people are
opium junkies or heroin junkies or coke
heads or crackheads society is worse
when 10% of people are due to our drugs
but I also don't think you you dispute
that that has negative impacts on
society having having 10% of society
people being alcoholics is also
maduk but is not as bad and I've
probably lived in several societies
where 10% of people are alcoholics I
mean probably Scotland and cabbage both
you know whatever you can certainly be
in places where that that exists today
and historically different examples of
people say but you you use the term harm
and this is not theoretical yeah you you
think you're reducing on by allowing
more people to use more cocaine and
higher quality and to not have to commit
crimes to get it no you're more people
will be harmed by you providing for
thinking you'd say this to it you'd say
this to a drug dealer to if you met a
drug dealer you might say to him you
know I understand you're making a lot of
money selling cocaine but the sad thing
is you're harming people when the
government becomes the drug dealer they
also are harming people they're
providing people with cocaine which
causes brain damage just like if I teach
someone to Huff glue and I provide them
with glue snort huffing glue causes
brain damage it's true alcohol also
causes brain damage but it is much less
there so home your argument is supposed
to based on harm but what about the harm
to the drug users themselves this
society as a whole also but this is the
harm to real people the research we have
regarding addiction and drug use but if
drugs were legalized it would not
appreciably increase the number of
addicts and it would make them safer it
would make society safer okay but so if
more people use more cocaine at higher
sorry okay all right so look soup mod
mod I'm still right even if I can see
the point if look please if that's
exactly to say if the exact same number
of people consume more cocaine at lower
prices
that is a huge assumption there's no
evidence for that you already conceded
these points earlier you already
complete it you already can see the
point earlier that if cocaine is
completely legal then more people will
try actually we did talk about it
because okay so your human is exactly
the same number of people yeah using
cocaine yes as their civil right but now
you can't fire them as a police officer
using cocaine three times a week
you can't intervene and take their kid
away from them because they were parents
yes if it's legal if cocaine is legal
you want to have it both ways so you're
gonna have all the benefits of cocaine
being illegal that police aren't allowed
to use it and parents aren't allowed to
use it so parents and police and
construction workers none of them can
use cocaine only the people who don't
matter only those people get to use
cocaine University professors everyone
harms people everyone has
responsibilities everyone has the
potential to lead a meaningful life or a
meaningless life and I love all mankind
and I don't want to countlessly cut them
off and say if all you people kill
yourselves that's no problem to me it's
a problem there MA the poor in Canada
are they not are poor again Emile the
drug addicts are they not our drug
addicts whose are they no it's not your
pan isn't utopia but tell me something
cocaine causing brain damage is that or
is that not harm that was why I never
got to finish my sentence but I was
gonna say I can if I can see to you
exactly the same number of people using
exactly the same amount of cocaine which
is ridiculous but they're getting it
legally instead of you illegally if
magically that que but let me say but if
magical that happens there
still harm being done precisely because
cocaine causes brain damage
precisely because cocaine if you help
yourself so huffing glue doesn't cause
harm you wouldn't say that yes so in the
same sense using cocaine doesn't cause
harm it causes no it is your decision it
is your decision but that is harm that's
what we're talking about you're cleaning
there is no harm you wouldn't say that
about yourself you wouldn't say that you
huffing glue or using cocaine cause norm
you wouldn't say about your daughter you
wouldn't say to a police officer or a
pilot or a parent you only say it about
those people that it's not doing any
harm for them to cause brain damage by
using cocaine I think hopefully it's
much clearer I think you super clear in
the issue of brain damage and all those
things if you're making that decision
for yourself then that you have that
autonomy is it is harm right you are why
not just concede the point brain damage
is harm there have been several points
like this where you'll do anything
except admit what's completely obvious
it took us an hour for you to admit that
a cop doing cocaine three times a week
is a problem for everyone the cop
himself and the people he informs that
the law it enforces the law it's a
problem when professors do it it's
problems anyone responsibility does and
from my perspective I believe in the
Equality of all mankind so it's our
problem what anyone does it cuz I don't
believe in two separate classes of
society and elite for whom ethics matter
and an underclass through ethics and
laws don't matter I regard us as but and
now the very simple question is this
harm for your own life
you're going to connect yourself you
feel that it's right to give that
authority to the government someone else
let them decide because if you might
harm yourself you you shouldn't be
allowed to do it and that goes back to
great great question quick let me ask
you a question I'm answer your question
let me answer question so you know you
know the answer my question but let me
let me ask a question with an example
out of my first year economics textbook
if it's your decision why does the
government prevent you from selling
yourself into slavery why you may not
think it does any harm and yet yes we
believe in having laws that are both for
your benefit and for the social units
benefit that prevents you from selling
yourself into slavery even if you feel
you have a good deal even if you know
what this is ok I'm gonna get a lump sum
I'm gonna give it to my ex-wife yes so
your question is your question is do I
believe you know but I'm doing no it's
I'm sorry it's a textbook example
you're asking me do I believe that laws
should prevent people from making the
decisions themselves to give themselves
brain damage my answer is yes I believe
in environmental regulation against
harmful chemicals in the workplace in
food in food labeling and making sure
there isn't poison things that cause
health problems or brain damage in your
food I believe it in the workplace I
believe in industrial sites and I
believe in it with recreational drugs
completely consistently that's the same
the same kind of harmony and and it's
completely consistent with slavery the
arguments but it's my personal choice
it's not get impacted in whether me
guess what I believe that the government
has the right to eradicate slavery which
includes taking away the personal
private choice of slave owners and slave
sellers and people who might voluntarily
choose become slaves if you had a truly
free market this is another argument
from false equivalency this is another
you you act peak so again before I've
had to ask for an hour and you've never
met it do you really believe there's no
difference between drinking alcohol and
using cocaine or huffing glue and you
never want to answer honestly that of
course is a difference but now now I ask
you do you really
leave there is no difference between
slavery and a mortgage do you really
believe that so why make a totally
insincere argument you've just claimed
that I don't really believe what I'm are
going of course I believe of course I'm
against slavery and I don't regard it as
equivalent to mortgages of course
there's a difference you probably have a
mortgage right now I don't know but
probably baggage what is the baggage oh
I think there's a lot of baggage there
with slavery that's right
what are you baggage baggage it is what
it is it's slavery I mean you know
ancient Egypt they built the pyramids
but I'm against slavery you just you
don't have the right to decide for
yourself what you're gonna put in your
body that's what you're saying I believe
that right now if people want to use
cocaine legally they do have the right
to buy an airplane to get to Columbia I
think in a sense you know I mean you do
have that right and we don't you know
and that's that and you know if you want
to use other drugs well I think I should
including okay you can go to Amsterdam
Amsterdam it's not legal but it's
tolerated they're kind of in a gray area
on drugs like cocaine heroin I think I
think you do have that right but in the
other hand I don't play this game that
that you play of pretending that somehow
the government that the authority of a
democratic government stops when we're
talking about drugs that go into
people's noses or veins or however they
take them no I believe the government as
we talked about labeling on food I'm
really happy that the government forces
companies to honestly admit whether or
not bread contains l-cysteine whether or
not bread contains pork fat or a bunch
of the things that's government
regulation it's forcing it and there
isn't even a health problem with that
it's just because I'm a I'm a vegan and
I don't want this stuff in my diet I'm
so happy with them so happy we have
government regulation that makes food
and soap and medicine safer and cocaine
causes brain damage it causes other
personal damage to your life and
personal danger and personal harm and on
a social unit it causes
kinds of problems this is true and I
have absolutely no hesitation to you and
saying to you in the same way I believe
that we can make slavery illegal and use
force ultimately use you know ultimately
the police or the army has to get
involved with preventing slavery from
existing and use force to make to
abolish slavery or to abolish as much as
Japan has abolished the use of cocaine
and heroin sure I have no hesitation
though because what you have one country
just because there are other countries
with the same kind of drug laws so you
can't say oh Japan managed to get rid of
doing drug use and yet these other
countries that have similar laws they
haven't so I'm not sure you're just
saying II like Japan obviously there's a
whole lot of cultural context everything
else that goes there it's a incredibly
ridiculous argument to say like you like
Japan because we can't all be like Japan
if Colombia we're today to enact the
exact same policies that are in Japan it
would not be the main argument when
we're going back to you have the right
to decide what you do to yourself what
you do your body is no anyone else but
you know that's not reality
you don't know that's what you wish
reality was but human right even though
I may not agree with it I may think that
it is harming your body I may think that
it's hurting your brain cells
obviously okay what is that I've never
done any of these things but why is why
is cocaine a fundamental human right
that's what you you just our time being
able to do with your own body when it
comes to the drugs that you choose to
take whether it's you know an
antidepressant lipitor cocaine that's
your choice if you're in a reformed
adult you need to be able to make those
decisions and I think that it's wrong
for the state to use two white works why
can't I sell why can't I sell bread with
battery acid in it why can't I income
why can't you are you're creating harm
to them oh so I can eat bread with
battery acid
there's no okay you know
you have attributed an argument to me
that you know that I don't that I don't
have you know it's understandable that
you did but you've said Columbia can't
do what Japan did I agree with that of
course my argument doesn't rely on the
idea that Columbia or Los Angeles can
achieve what Tokyo achieved you know
definitely not in the next 20 years but
you could argue never I was just living
on the border between no no but listen
no your argument is based on a universal
absolute your argument is based on the
idea that cocaine should be a human
right you've just stated that in almost
exactly this terms mine isn't mine is
based on you further Summa channel
before doing the best you can right and
saying hey drug addiction is a problem
what can we do about it and the answer
is gonna be different I was living in
Laos and Cambodia the Cambodian
government doesn't have the same
resources the Japanese government has
just in terms of providing people with
rehab facilities I want to do the best I
can but in the society I don't think we
have the right to dictate people what
the best they can do is so I think
that's just the end of the argument I
disagree with you okay I agree well I
actually agree with you you said that we
can't dictate to people what the best
they can do is but precisely will we
dictate are the minimum standards they
have to meet that if you want to be a
police officer you can't use any cocaine
if you want to be an airline pilot what
you can and can't do whether it's
cocaine or maybe even cough medicine
there are probably some cough medicines
that are not safe for an airline pilot
to take I think exactly what legislation
is about is creating minimum standards
well I see that's interesting you put it
that way because I see it exactly the
opposite I think your argument is the
same standard should be applied everyone
because your argument is the cocaine
should be a human right for everyone and
that's exactly what I would do it so
that is one standard applied to everyone
whether in a Colombia
[Music]
even if it's legal you may not get a job
as a police officer I'm not against
having conflict it may it may lead to as
you know what may lead to addiction and
whatever may lead to you becoming a
prostitute or what have you Billy do you
have living a much worse life which
there's a lot of literature proving well
no I don't I think my vision is much
more compassionate than yours because
yours is like Milton Freeman which is
just let people kill themselves let the
free market sort it out and I don't
think that's true I think there are
people who can intervene and save lives
and improve people's lives and help them
when they're addicts which improves you
can't you can't do that if if it's a
human right to use cocaine you don't
have the right no you don't have the
right to arrest them that is precisely
what you wait no but you see how I
genuinely do all right I hope that if my
own daughter becomes addicted to drugs
like cocaine and heroin that she can be
arrested ie stopped of course I'd prefer
if she goes into a nice rehab facility
rather than a horrible prison but arrest
and and coercion ayiiia being a
mandatory drug rehab i I hope that would
happen to help my own daughter I hope
that would happen to happen your own
daughter
but yes arrest is fundamental and you
know drug addicts especially when
they're high you say oh that will they
get help when they want help well you
know that could be too late or it could
be never never they can waste their
lives away and die so my view is more
compassionate it is more based on
intervention and intervention involves
arrest I don't mind saying that you're
more compassionate than me I thought
that's that's I'm freely willing to
admit that and that that vision sounds
more compassionate well I think that it
is more more important I think that it
is more important to people to have the
right to do I think see fit I think
that's more important they will have to
pay the consequences in my world they
would pay the consequences and obviously
I'm speaking in utopian terms your your
vision is what we currently have
I just believe that it is more important
to give people the right to do that and
I think that's just it's just a
difference of opinion obviously look
it's true way of viewing the world well
it's true but you know I think you you
know and this is why you you conjure
yourself when parents are mentioned we
don't really bear the consequence
imagine this is an issue with veganism
too if someone buys beef they don't
really bear the consequences
ecologically for example of meat
production you know there are but
there's no way in which they fare those
consequences this is the prop this is
one of the reasons why vegans want
people stop eating meat you can buy beef
and you don't have to swim in the river
that's being polluted by meat production
it's an externality right you can make
the decision for yourself to become a
drug addict and you don't bear the
consequences of your own children being
neglected or raised poorly because
you're a draw or just a moderate drug
user again for me it's not just being a
drug addict you can use cocaine 2 times
a week you don't actually deal with
really most of the consequences created
for other people even if you're not in a
really high-pressure job like being a
police officer or or university
professor there are there are
consequences for everyone yourself
included that you'll never you'll never
shoulder the responsibility for how can
you a lot of things that we can't but
that's an appeal to futility let's look
that's an appeal
that's an appeal to futility which you
know which is a fallacy but you know
there's a difference we can make and it
is the difference between Japan even if
we make those choices we will not get
Japan Japan is Japan so your appeal is
to Japan you didn't you don't like you
know I have many other examples in terms
of what's know for different countries
different things are possible Laos is a
very very poor country so their methods
I mean I think that they obviously
should allow people to they should
legalize the sale of drugs because it's
going to allow everyone to be safer in
terms of consumption and everything like
that that's my position you know that
but if they were to go right now like if
we took your vision and we took it to
yeah and we said you know what we're
gonna have harsh harsh penalties we are
going to make sure this is illegal we
will punish it I don't think I've ever
mentioned harsh penalties once I met you
the rest
great great question great question
great question and you know this is how
this discussion began at the very
beginning I have a positive example of
exactly that which is Yunnan Province
China which is right on the border of a
long time civil war growing opium and
selling opium they also produce
methamphetamines and other synthetic
drugs drugs like ecstasy so you nan is
right on a border which is full of hard
drug trafficking also a gun smuggling
and a number of other kinds like that
and they have an astoundingly high
quality of law and order and and quality
life of people and yes it is based on
thousands and thousands of people being
put in prison that is one that's not the
whole solution but that is an example of
a poor country not as poor as Laos not
as poor as Cambodia but poor and they
are they are using very serious
enforcement which includes collecting
everyone's emails in the whole country
everyone's text messages and interesting
people and they do people who are just
addicts that you put into rehab
they don't have death penalty for for-4
users they do have drug death penalty
for smugglers people smuggled across the
border that is part of it and you nan is
a very successful example and you know
again um maybe a couple dozen people are
killed a year due to that policy I don't
know in terms than that I completely
accept that has some body count and I'm
not saying it's great it would be great
if we can reduce it I like that body you
have to be as close to zero as possible
but you know like all things zero is
almost never attainable your policy so
you just ask me which is a great
question you said what would happen in
Cambodia if my proposal if my propose
were broken I could ask you what would
happen in you nan if your proposal was
applied and you know that the number of
drug users in you nan
would increase and we know this
factually because the demand is there
and it's being suppressed it's being
stopped the number of drug users would
increase and there would be tremendous
social impacts both for you nan and for
that Civil War in many ways you nan
could descend into the kind of horrible
situation Colombia was in in the 1980s
if your policies were abiding in yours
but you are saying that that would be
worse that would be much worse like
having more drug addicts and Union
policy lib let's say it was a five
percent increase in drug use in you nan
there's a five percent increase in drug
in use in you nan but people are free
but that's that's a completely separate
issue I'm sorry free you can't possibly
claim that freedom of speech is silly
and that's why Japan I'm using rock in
the China cocaine is not freedom speech
freedom of speech is a human right
cocaine is not that's my position you
believe both are human rights that's
just human right crime to me that's
human rights in action that is and if
it's a five percent increase in drug
drug use but I'm willing to accept that
because as heartless and uncompassionate
is that maybe I would rather have those
people with their civil liberties being
able to make decisions then have them in
prison against their will what don't
rhyme of putting something into their
body but you don't um you say that the I
think this is absolute last thing I'm
saying stomach but you know the other
thing about speed limits so I've never
driven a car once in my whole life
I made that choice but if you choose to
own a car you choose to give up some of
your civil liberties you know there's
all these rules of the road and again
not everyone can have a driver's license
maybe your eyesight isn't good enough
whatever it is right so it's it's
actually limited and it's unequal and
prejudicial and what-have-you we're not
all equal as soon as you start drawing
the legalization of drugs in the cop but
if you if you you know enter into this
kind of rage if you accept a rules-based
system you know like there are different
colleges of the united states some
colleges will give you stringent drug
tests and force you to learn how to swim
is really weird to me in forcing you to
take swimming tests and low hi v--
little glues and some people are so
eager to say yeah this is the college i
want to sign up to and some colleges are
incredibly laxed and permissive and
everyone is using drugs on campus the
other ones using marijuana at least on
the drugs openly and some people want to
go to that Decco campus but don't you
think there's a sense of fair play that
people understand what's right and wrong
they understand they have a sense of
social responsibility and they
understand that they're letting people
down by using cocaine to letting down
their parents they're letting down their
kids they're letting down themselves
maybe or an expectation what they could
accomplish and that in fact there is
something wrong but you know like is it
oh such a small percentage of people who
feel or just in the same way if I'm
gonna drive a car I have to make some
effort to be a good driver mm-hmm you
can think of it as an obligation to
society if you want to what do you think
about it in other ways but just hey this
is a rules-based system if I'm gonna
play this game if I'm gonna play this
sport even the sport has a set of rules
within itself that's different from
universal you know human rights are
something it's just for this context I
don't see this as a simple situation of
an oppressive government forcing people
to not use cocaine I think there is a
sense of a game we play a society where
we do take on responsibilities and say
hey I know I'm a university professor or
I'm a police officer or I'm me I've
worked on a construction site but you
know what I understand this is part of
my responsibility is to know I mean and
I understand that using it is a crime
between your example and mine is the
crime aspect I think that if we look at
our society
I don't know many societies that totally
every all individuals praise drug use I
think as individuals
most of us fortunately tend to consider
um that as letting people down let me
tend to consider drug use as letting
people down um and as fight because
democracy is made up of individuals
those individuals make up a society
where they believe that drug uses sad
and it's letting people down I just
think instead of making it a crime we
continue to say that it's wrong and to
help people with it when they have that
problem maybe or anything else instead
of treating it as if it's a crime we
treat it as an illness we treat even the
use of your cocaine that you you enjoy
some did you say it's so enjoyable that
we treat that is a sad thing and we
treated it even even something that
makes people happy that we can treat
that is something that is concerning we
can we can discuss it for what it is
without making it a crime in high
schools all across America and all cars
can in my high school the kids who did
drugs do you think they're the cool kids
or the uncool kids in my high school in
the school I went to in the school you
went to really they didn't get it okay
sir I'm strangely but then I also grew
up in an area where methamphetamine
youth I knew many many people and so of
course it's the situation and of course
like same same deal for my husband where
he grew up in Columbia but I grew up in
the heart of meth country and the kids I
mean you felt so bad for them they got
teased mercilessly they were always
afraid to tell you anything about their
lives they would hide they refused to go
to birthday parties they were extremely
unpopular and even into high school you
know so
so well no but that's okay but that's a
great contrast but I mean you must be
able to appreciate the contrast between
that situation and a situation where in
high school what's normalized is the guy
with drugs is cool the guy with drugs
gets laid women have sex with them in
order to have access to cocaine in which
the cool kids in the high school and the
powerful people in society are people
using using drugs hard drugs like like
cocaine and heroin this is this is why I
think you agree with me more than you
think you do because if you describe but
if you would try to describe the
objective you want I think you want
everything about Japanese society
without the enforcement without the
illegal coercion element I think you
want to live in a society with low
levels of drug use and where the cool
kid in high school and OC but just
district Lee because there are elements
of power are not just being sexy or
being cool again in Laos the people who
had the drugs gross the people with the
guns I mean that's ultimately is an
issue of social power they were the
people who made decisions like a mayor
locally like a village chieftain though
you keep then or what have you that's
also a problem as drugs being involved
with power not just sex and prestige and
coolness I think you want the same
things I want you don't want your
daughter to go to a school where the
cool kids are the ones who use drugs and
again and you in general don't want to
be in a society we are where everyone's
daughter is going to school with that
but that is the society we're in I think
that's very much the crossroads we're at
and my own you know I mean my own
brother is my own family I've known so
many people you know impacted by this I
new drug dealers in high school some of
my friends were we're drug dealers and
of course I knew drug users and you know
for me at that age in high school age
the only reason to be involved with
drugs with sex if you were drugs and
alcohol or drugs including alcohol
the criminalization element and I have
to point out one of my friends who's
from Holland she said that one of the
interesting things in her experience but
I'm growing up in that environment was
the drug use was not cool I'm sending
that loser tourists went and did at
coffee shops but it was lame right it
was loser Lee and the people who did it
ended up being losers it was not
something that she ever aspired to it
wasn't that having around in fact the
legalization network in her opinion did
make it less attractive so I think maybe
what you're narrowing down on it the
idea that the social norms of course
powerful of course of course
well I would say that you can say the
same about speeding driving too fast
probably the cultural because there
can't be a cop on every corner it can't
just be enforcement it has to be the
attitude towards driving that - it's
gonna be more powerful so III think that
is true however I would not say the
effective enforcement is zero neither
Russ would say it's a zero you know this
is Carter's but you know every society I
studied as a scholar tera vaada but as
how much it was written more than 10
years so terribad about as I'm really
briefly Sri Lanka Myanmar Laos Cambodia
Thailand few other little bits of pieces
of Yunnan all of those societies had
access to opium from the dawn of
civilization or earliest records it's
been there for thousands of years it was
never hard to make your up did -
incidentally it's much over looks that
we have you know really like key man
records with opium land and yet you know
the effect of tera vaada Buddhism on the
culture a culture that valorizes what I
would call hyper vigilance with the idea
it's not about being cool it's not being
rised it's about being very alert and
sharp - manly and to be very I want to
tear about it but a Buddhist culture is
to be really kind of on point which can
be a drag living in those cultures to
say most people don't find that aspect
of Sri Lankan culture very agreeable but
you know they'd probably prefer to be in
a culture that's more more laid-back but
just the influence of that I remember
reading we have no historical records
from the pre-modern period of opium
being a problem even though the opium
poppy
grew like a weed and was used definitely
as medicine for things like surgery or
broken arm broken leg but that was
something sick people used so when the
elderly used it when they add you know
back pain and stuff like that elderly
people used it for for various commands
that you don't want to be like a sick
old man smoking opium
so just stigma on the one hand and you
know those kinds of powerful cultural
perception what it is to be manly and
vibrant that can and it apparently
worked for a couple centuries no buts
about it home I know how long but you
know that those things they they can be
they can be very powerful and you know
you see so there is actually a lot of
common ground between our views on that
theater because actually the objective
for the kind of society we want is the
same but what kind of body count of what
type were willing to tolerate is is
different use the campus throughout
throughout world history in unit
marijuana was used as a flu remedy but
that was it and then it was the dust
despised if you didn't have the flu or
something like yeah you know things that
were pretty extreme but but kept culture
and I think what we're both saying here
and correct me if I'm wrong but I think
one thing that we're both saying is that
the power of culture yes it's stronger
than than than criminalization the
culture can be a stronger influence than
than the criminalization and maybe my
one my one suggestion here from my
perspective would simply be the
increasing enforcement like you you hear
people like um oh I think it's name is
suzet Peter Hitchens Christopher
Hitchens brother but if you if you just
punish people enough so I don't believe
that I mean
not a naive if work on the culture part
and ignored the legalization part I mean
I may think that it would be nice for it
to be legal you think it would be nice
for it to be illegal we both know we're
both be perfectly honest the only drug
that I hear it's pretty close to reality
the only drug that I really would would
genuinely advocate for publicly and ever
have this is going on YouTube this is
pretty public forever myself but but
I've always um I've always advocated for
it because I think that it would help
alleviate some issues with crime and
stuff like that but maybe the one thing
that we can agree about here is just
that whether you win or I do what ultra
may play a bigger role chirpin then
because we've seen the laws in the u.s.
lots of laws against drugs there are
lots of people in prison and it doesn't
have the same effect even as Union
because if you look at them yes no but
there were there are failures there are
failures and there are the failures are
very but Chicago is a failure Los
Angeles there are many many failures no
no IIIi and I think it's written but I
think I think all of Mexico is a failure
in that way also I mean maybe not
Vermont maybe in like you know I don't
know [ __ ] about her but is a maybe in
Vermont things are ok but no it most of
those are really examples of profound
failure and I think we have to learn
from examining the failures and I think
we can also learn from examining success
like Japan and there are many many
elements there you know a culture and
otherwise and some of them may be a
wealthy country like Canada can learn
from an adapt to the Canadian context
and maybe for a country like Laos maybe
the best thing they can do is to
legalize it temporarily I sympathize the
decision made by the Colombian
government which is basically to drag
their feet and allow cocaine to be
legalized because I can imagine they got
to a point where they say look we've
shot so many people and we don't want to
shoot people anymore and let's try
something new because
we know the old way wasn't working and
we don't have a budget to imitate Japan
so let's try legalization I completely
sympathize with what goes what goes into
that decision and you know maybe you can
even say having a you know having
enforcement is a luxury that some
countries can't afford and there's a
there's a real argument as to you know
what is best for Colombia and what is
what is best for Mexico and what is what
is best for you Nana Japan and so on I'm
very open to that kind of you know a
pragmatic contradiction on the level of
one to one reality but we'll wrap it up
I mean don't don't worry I have almost
nothing more to say but you know I
normally do not base my arguments on
compassion you've probably noticed this
like within veganism I almost never say
to you look at this cow how can you fail
to feel you know I it's kind of an easy
card to play there are all kinds of
reasons why I don't bother to do that
but you know we you know compassion is
still an issue in our in our ethics in
what have you um you know you you you
kind of said laughing like oh do you
think arresting people is compassionate
you know I've known drug addicts you've
talked about it this I think does come
from Socrates one of those fundamentals
ideas of Socrates is you can talk to
people and they think they're happy but
they're not you can debate with them
what is true happiness this is worth
debating you know you know people can
think they're happy as drug addicts and
be arrested and have five days in a
prison cell and then two months in a
rehab facility and they look back and
say wow that was just just having the
opportunity to get clean I'm so glad I
got arrested how many times does that
happen I've read so many interviews
where this this kind of thing is is
related so no I mean I know you know
very different context you're kind of
scoffing at the idea that arresting
people is compassionate I don't fought
at the attitude of someone like Milton
Friedman of saying just let them kill
themselves in contrast to walking down
the street again sorry down the street
is prejudicial because as you say it's
mostly poor people on the street let's
say my own brother had brothers who are
at various levels of socioeconomic
status but none of them are none of them
are living on the street but you know my
own brother whose University educated I
can call him Richard it's a fake name so
my brother Richard I think it would have
been a wonderful thing if he'd gotten
arrested and even done
time for us package past reviews I
really do I think it would have been
good for him and it would have been good
for getting in society and you know that
maybe that sounds like an awful thing to
say but as I say it's not it's not a
deploring it but to me the question of
being indifferent to someone being a
drug addict whether it's a stranger on
the street a little homeless person or
your brother or someone who's a wealthy
executive or a rock star and saying look
you know the word arrest means stop the
power of arrest is here so we can stop
you you get clean and you know you may
you may not have a choice but going to
rehab I think neither one of us wants to
walk by that person neither one of us
thinks but that's the right thing to do
um the I think that it it really does
have less to do with whether we put that
person in prison or whether we put them
in rehab I have equalized ation is
preferable is because when you look at
rehabilitation for addicts especially
addicts like the people who do become
the addicts the people who get the brain
damaged the people who ruin their lives
the number of them that are
rehabilitated is so incredibly low and
you look at I mean I think about my
mom's friend her son is my age we were
friends growing up his life is totally
destroyed
he's been in rehab many times he's been
in prison many many times and neither
one has done any good for him and I you
you talk about this a lot there are some
issues that are just I wish we had the
science I think someday we will to be
able to solve those issues but we don't
have the science to solve those issues
right now we're in this place where we
don't know what to do and for him I just
think you know for someone like that
that is it's gonna be very sad and no
matter what and I mean when you look at
the stats for Alcoholics Anonymous
things like that you see how how often
people relapse when they have that
severe addiction I would rather see him
taking the drugs that he needs in a
supervised situation like I've seen what
they do in Switzerland his parents would
sleep
you talk about a parent like I've seen
how's mom and dad it both suffered and
the kind of impact that it's had on
their lives um I don't think this
criminalization has helped him in any
way or help them as parents and and I
just I think you're so right about the
cultural issues and how strong those are
and I'm very much agree with you and I
I'm very pleased to see the people who
come with this from different
perspectives um I think you again on
believing more in the legislation is an
answer me believing maybe more in
freedom is the answer we can both agree
that there need to be serious cultural
changes in order to make anything like
that work well I think this is a major
major struggle for our generation and
you know I think it is really possible
you and I will both run for Alderman or
run for mayor in the future and this
this video could come back up well it
can be quoted in my whole life I used
cocaine once because I read that book
you guys didn't guess when I said it's
infinitely more than zero the number was
one all this can be quoted to to
discredit us but I mean you know I do
think it's ironic three times a week is
okay right four or five we got to draw
the line somewhere right but I mean it
is interesting like veganism I think it
is true that you and I both are engaged
with this issue because we are
interested in making the world a better
place whether you think about that in
terms of compassion or harm reduction or
you know however you you want to put it
and you know I think I mean I hope I
still know you 20 years from now I
really do but no but this is one of
those issues made 20 years from now Iraq
could be a peaceful democracy to unhear
know you know the world could change in
many ways what will Afghanistan be like
20 years from now I'm not recklessly
optimistic
Cambodia Cambodia could be a well
there's if there's if there's one thing
if there's one thing for sure 20 years
from now this problem will not go away
and to use the the locus that started
the conversation I don't think either
one of us believes that specifically
Vancouver Vancouver Canada
neither of us thinks that that issue
will go away so I think it is a major
ethical political and legal issue for
our times and Canada Columbia and all
the rest of the world is gonna argue
with it and we is gonna wrestle with it
and I was gonna say I do think you're
correct in asking the questions about
freedom I really do but just as I don't
I don't believe in the freedom that you
can poo anywhere you know sewage
treatment also involves coercion of
saying no we're gonna force you to
participate in our government conspiracy
to put sewage into pipes and you can't
put it here yet it's very specific
what isn't isn't well there are all
kinds of things worse oh yeah over here
we have freedom and then we draw a line
and over here there's no freedom and you
know that this is a case where you and I
draw the line at a different point in
the map okay
great talking to you Maude great way to
spend three hours and okay I'll put I
tell you what though you know we may not
be that so many people listen the full
three hours but a lot of people do
listen to the podcast I'm gonna give a
link below this video so people can get
it download it just as a podcast and
list it while they do the dishes you may
have thought the first two hours are not
useful to you but I'm certain there will
be some people in the audience for whom
that's that's you know hashing out some
issues they'd never thought of before
from two very peculiar and very vegan
perspectives that maybe the world has
never seen before